[In the middle of a dessert in Kunar Province, Afghanistan. A convoy drives of in the dessert playing "Back in Black" by AC/DC]
[In the armored car where Tony is, he and the soldiers are quiet, then they start talking.]
Tony Stark: I feel like you're driving me to a court-martial. This is crazy. What did I do? I feel like you're going to pull over and snuff me. What, you're not allowed to talk? Hey, Forrest!
Soldier: We can talk, sir.
Tony Stark: Oh, I see. So it's personal?
Soldier (female): [She's driving the Vehicle.] No, you intimidate them.
Tony Stark: Good God, you're a woman. I honestly... I couldn't have called that. I mean, I'd apologize, but isn't that what we're going for here? I thought of you as a soldier first.
Soldier (female): I'm an airman.
Tony Stark: Well you have, actually, excellent bone structure, there. I'm kind of having a hard time not looking at you now. Is that weird? [The Soldiers in the vehicle laugh and chuckle.] Come on, it's okay, laugh.
Soldier: Sir, I have a question to ask.
Tony Stark: Yes, please.
Soldier: Is it true you went 12 for 12 with last year's Maxim cover models?
Tony Stark: That is an excellent question. Yes and no. March and I had a scheduling conflict, but fortunately, the Christmas cover was twins. Anything else? [The Soldier next to him, Jimmy, raises his hand.] You're kidding me with the hand up, right?
Soldier (Jimmy): Is it cool if I take a picture with you?
Tony Stark: Yes. It's very cool. [The soldier next to him pulls his camera out and hands it to the soldier in the front seat.] I don't want to see this on your MySpace page. [The Soldier puts up a peace sign for the photo.] Please, no gang signs. No, throw it up. I'm kidding. Yeah, peace. I love peace. I'd be out of a job with peace.
Soldier (Jimmy): Come on. Hurry up. Just click it. Don't change any settings. Just click it.
[As the picture was about to be taken, something hit and blew up the vehicle in front of them. Gunshots and such were heard and hitting the side of their vehicle.]
Tony Stark: What's going on?
Soldier (female): Contact left!
Tony Stark: What have we got?
[The driver stepped out to go into combat and was shot down]
Soldier: Jimmy, stay with Stark!
Soldier (Jimmy): Stay down!
Tony Stark: Yeah.
[The other Soldier from the front seat got out to shoot but was shot too]
Soldier (Jimmy): Son of a bitch!
[Jimmy goes out to fight.]
Tony Stark: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait! Give me a gun!
Soldier (Jimmy): Stay here!
[Jimmy turned back around and he was gunned down too, holes piercing the vehicle. Tony's hearing and senses were dulled a bit as he got himself out of the vehicle, stumbling a bit in the chaos. He got some of his hearing back and ran and dove behind a rock for cover. He pulled out his phone to contact and call for help when a bomb landed next to him. He looked over to see it say: Stark Industries. He tried to get up and get away, but didn't in time. The bomb exploded and made him fly through the air a bit.]
Tony Stark: Whoa!
[He hit the ground hard, senses dulled again. He felt a pain in his chest and pulled his shirt of out the way as blood started to pool.]
[Later Tony is shown kidnapped by an unknown terrorist group and there is a man reciting in Urdu about Tony's kidnapping]
IRON MAN
[Las Vegas, 36 Hours Earlier]
Voice over: Tony Stark. Visionary. Genius. American patriot. Even from an early age, the son of legendary weapons developer Howard Stark quickly stole the spotlight with his brilliant and unique mind. At age four, he built his first circuit board. At age six, his first engine. And at 17, he graduated summa cum laude from MIT. Then, the passing of a titan. Howard Stark's lifelong friend and ally, Obadiah Stane, steps in to help fill the gap left by the legendary founder, until, at age 21, the prodigal son returns and is anointed the new CEO of Stark Industries. With the keys to the kingdom, Tony ushers in a new era for his father's legacy, creating smarter weapons, advanced robotics, satellite targeting. Today, Tony Stark has changed the face of the weapons industry by ensuring freedom and protecting America and her interests around the globe.
James Rhodes: As liaison to Stark Industries, I've had the unique privilege of serving with a real patriot. He is my friend and he is my great mentor. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my honor to present this year's Apogee Award to Mr. Tony Stark. Tony?
Obadiah Stane: Thank you, Colonel.
James Rhodes: Thanks for the save.
Obadiah Stane: This is beautiful. Thank you. Thank you all very much. This is wonderful. Well, I'm not Tony Stark. But if I were Tony, I would tell you how honored I feel and what a joy it is to receive this very prestigious award. Tony, you know...The best thing about Tony is also the worst thing. He's always working.
Tony Stark: Work it! Come on! We should just stay till the morning.
Woman: You are unbelievable.
Tony Stark: Oh, no! Did they rope you into this?
James Rhodes: Nobody roped me into anything!
Tony Stark: I'm so sorry.
James Rhodes: But they told me that if I presented you with an award, you'd be deeply honored.
Tony Stark: Of course I'd be deeply honored. And it's you, that's great. So, when do we do it?
James Rhodes: It's right here. Here you go.
Tony Stark: There it is. That was easy. I'm so sorry.
James Rhodes: Yeah, it's okay.
Tony Stark: Wow! Would you look at that? That's something else. I don't have any of those floating around. Uh, we're gonna let it ride! Give me a hand, will you? Give me a little something-something. [hot girl blows on dice] Okay, you, too. [Tony holds the dice out to Rhodes.]
James Rhodes: I don't blow on a man's dice.
Tony Stark: Come on, honey bear.
James Rhodes: I don't blow on a man's dice. [Rhodes knocks Tony's hand away causing the dice to roll]
Tony Stark: There it is. Lieutenant Colonel Rhodes rolls! And...
Dealer: Two craps. Line away.
James Rhodes: That's what happens.
Tony Stark: Worse things have happened. I think we're gonna be fine. Color me up, will ya?
[Tony, Rhodes, and Happy leaving the casino.]
James Rhodes: This is where I exit.
Tony Stark: All right.
James Rhodes: Tomorrow, don't be late.
Tony Stark: Yeah, you can count on it.
James Rhodes: I'm serious!
Tony Stark: I know, I know. [Handing over his award to Caesar.] Render unto Caesar, that which is Caesar's. There you go.}
[Outside of the casino.]
Christine Everhart: Mr. Stark! Excuse me, Mr. Stark! Christine Everhart, Vanity Fair magazine. Can I ask you a couple of questions?
Happy Hogan: [whispering to Tony] She's cute.
Tony Stark: She's all right? [Turns to face Christine.] Hi.
Christine Everhart: Hi.
Tony Stark: Yeah. Okay--
Christine Everhart: It's okay?
Tony Stark: Go.
Christine Everhart: You've been called the da Vinci of our time. What do you say to that?
Tony Stark: Absolutely ridiculous. I don't paint.
Christine Everhart: And what do you say to your other nickname? "The Merchant of Death"?
Tony Stark: That's not bad. Let me guess. Berkeley?
Christine Everhart: Brown, actually.
Tony Stark: Well, Ms. Brown. It's an imperfect world, but it's the only one we've got. I guarantee you, the day weapons are no longer needed to keep the peace, I'll start making bricks and beams for baby hospitals.
Christine Everhart: You rehearse that much?
Tony Stark: Every night in front of the mirror before bedtime.
Christine Everhart: I can see that.
Tony Stark: I'd like to show you first-hand.
Christine Everhart: All I want is a serious answer.
Tony Stark: Okay, here's serious. My old man had a philosophy, "Peace means having a bigger stick than the other guy."
Christine Everhart: That's a great line coming from the guy selling the sticks.
Tony Stark: My father helped defeat the Nazis. He worked on the Manhattan Project. A lot of people, including your professors at Brown, would call that being a hero.
Christine Everhart: And a lot of people would also call that war profiteering.
Tony Stark: Tell me, do you plan to report on the millions we've saved by advancing medical technology or kept from starvation with our intelli-crops? All those breakthroughs, military funding, honey.
Christine Everhart: You ever lose an hour of sleep your whole life?
Tony Stark: I'd be prepared to lose a few with you.
[They go to Malibu and have sex.]
JARVIS: Good morning. It's 7:00 a.m. The weather in Malibu is 72 degrees with scattered clouds. The surf conditions are fair with waist-to-shoulder high lines. High tide will be at 10:52 a.m.
Christine Everhart: [Walking around Tony's mansion.] Tony? Hey, Tony? [Tries to play with the controls on the wall. It beeps at her.]
JARVIS: You are not authorized to access this area.
Christine Everhart: Jesus.
Pepper Potts: That's JARVIS. He runs the house. I've got your clothes here. They've been dry-cleaned and pressed, and there's a car waiting for you outside that will take you anywhere you'd like to go.
Christine Everhart: You must be the famous Pepper Potts.
Pepper Potts: Indeed I am.
Christine Everhart: After all these years, Tony still has you picking up the dry-cleaning.
Pepper Potts: I do anything and everything that Mr. Stark requires, including, occasionally, taking out the trash. Will that be all?
[Tony working on a car in his workshop]
Tony Stark: Give me an exploded view.
JARVIS: The compression in cylinder three appears to be low.
Tony Stark: Log that.
Pepper Potts: [Coming in on her phone.] I'm gonna try again, right now.
Tony Stark: Please don't turn down my music.
Pepper Potts: I'll keep you posted. [Getting off the phone.] You are supposed to be halfway around the world right now.
Tony Stark: How'd she take it?
Pepper Potts: Like a champ.
Tony Stark: Why are you trying to hustle me out of here?
Pepper Potts: Your flight was scheduled to leave an hour and a half ago.
Tony Stark: That's funny, I thought with it being my plane and all, that it would just wait for me to get there.
Pepper Potts: Tony, I need to speak to you about a couple things before I get you out of the door.
Tony Stark: I mean, doesn't it kind of defeat the whole purpose of having your own plane if it departs before you arrive?
Pepper Potts: Larry called. He's got another buyer for the Jackson Pollock in the wings. Do you want it? Yes or no.
Tony Stark: Is it a good representation of his spring period?
Pepper Potts: Um, no. The Springs was actually the neighborhood in East Hampton where he lived and worked--
Tony Stark: So?
Pepper Potts: Not "spring" like the season. I think it's a fair example. Um.. I think it's incredibly overpriced.
Tony Stark: I need it. Buy it. Store it.
Pepper Potts: Okay. The MIT commencement speech...
Tony Stark: Is in June. Please, don't harangue me about stuff that's way, way, down...
Pepper Potts: Well, they're haranguing me, so I'm gonna say yes.
Tony Stark: Deflect it and absorb it. Don't transmit it back to me.
Pepper Potts: I need you to sign this before you get on the plane.
Tony Stark: What are you trying to get rid of me for? What, you got plans?
Pepper Potts: As a matter of fact, I do.
Tony Stark: I don't like it when you have plans.
Pepper Potts: I'm allowed to have plans on my birthday.
Tony Stark: It's your birthday?
Pepper Potts: Yes.
Tony Stark: I knew that. Already?
Pepper Potts: Yeah. Isn't that strange? It's the same day as last year.
Tony Stark: Well, get yourself something nice from me.
Pepper Potts: I already did.
Tony Stark: And?
Pepper Potts: Oh, it was very nice.
Tony Stark: Yeah.
Pepper Potts: Very tasteful. Thank you, Mr. Stark.
Tony Stark: You're welcome, Miss Potts... Okay.
[Happy and Tony racing to the airport and arriving.]
Tony Stark: You're good. I thought I lost you back there.
Happy: You did, sir. [Grabbing Tony's things from the trunk.] I had to cut across Mulholland.
Tony Stark: I got you. I got you.
James Rhodes: What's wrong with you? [Standing at the jet doorway.]
Tony Stark: What?
James Rhodes: Three hours.
Tony Stark: I got caught doing a piece for Vanity Fair.
James Rhodes: For three hours. For three hours you got me standing here.
Tony Stark: Waiting on you now. Let's go. Come on. Wheels up! Rock and roll!
[inside the jet.]
Tony Stark: What you reading, platypus?
James Rhodes: Nothing.
Tony Stark: Come on, sour patch.
James Rhodes: I'm not sour.
Tony Stark: Don't be mad.
James Rhodes: I told you, I'm not mad. I'm indifferent, okay?
Tony Stark: I said I was sorry.
Flight Attendant #1: Good morning, Mr. Stark.
James Rhodes: You don't need to apologize to me.
Tony Stark: I told you I was sorry.
James Rhodes: I'm your man.
Tony Stark: Hi. I told him I was sorry, but he...
James Rhodes: I'm just indifferent right now.
Flight Attendant #1: Hot towel?
James Rhodes: You don't respect yourself, so I know you don't respect me.
Tony Stark: I respect you.
James Rhodes: I'm just your babysitter. So, when you need your diaper changed... [grabs a hot towel] Thank you. Let me know and I'll get you a bottle, okay?
Tony Stark: Hey! Heat up the sake, will you? Thanks for reminding me.
James Rhodes: No, I'm not talking... We're not drinking. We're working right now.
Tony Stark: You can't have sashimi without sake.
James Rhodes: You are constitutionally incapable of being responsible.
Tony Stark: It would be irresponsible not to drink. I'm just talking about a nightcap.
Flight Attendant #2: Hot sake?
Tony Stark: Yes, two, please.
James Rhodes: No. Just-- I'm not drinking. I don't want any.
[Rhodes and Tony drunk on the couch and the flight attendants dancing around them.]
James Rhodes: That's what I'm talking about. When I get up in the morning and I'm putting on my uniform, you know what I recognize? I see in that mirror that every person that's got this uniform on got my back!
Tony Stark: Hey, you know what? I'm not like you. I'm not cut out...
James Rhodes: No, no. You don't have to be like me! But you're more than what you are.
Tony Stark: Can you excuse me if I'm a bit distracted here?
James Rhodes: No! You can't be distracted right now! Listen to me!
[Bagram Air Base, Afghanistan.]
Tony Stark: General.
General: Welcome, Mr. Stark. We look forward to your weapons presentation.
Tony Stark: Thanks.
[Tony giving his presentation in the desert of Afghanistan.]
Tony Stark: Is it better to be feared or respected? I say, is it too much to ask for both? With that in mind, I humbly present the crown jewel of Stark Industries' Freedom Line. It's the first missile system to incorporate our proprietary repulsor technology. They say the best weapon is one you never have to fire. I respectfully disagree. I prefer the weapon you only have to fire once. That's how Dad did it. That's how America does it. And it's worked out pretty well so far. Find an excuse to let one of these off the chain, and I personally guarantee you the bad guys won't even want to come out of their caves. [The missiles get launched.] For your consideration, the Jericho. [The missiles explode]
Tony Stark: [Opening a cooler full of alcohol]I'll be throwing one of these in with every purchase of 500 million or more. To peace! [Tony's phone begins ringing.]
Obadiah Stane: [through the video chat] Tony.
Tony Stark: Obie, what are you doing up?
Obadiah Stane: I couldn't sleep till I found out how it went. How'd it go?
Tony Stark: It went great. Looks like it's gonna be an early Christmas.
Obadiah Stane: Hey! Way to go, my boy! I'll see you tomorrow, yeah?
Tony Stark: Why aren't you wearing those pajamas I got you?
Obadiah Stane: Good night, Tony. [Tony hangs up the call as he enters the military vehicle.]
James Rhodes: Hey, Tony. [Coming up to the vehicle Tony's in.]
Tony Stark: I'm sorry, this is the "fun-vee." The "hum-drum-vee" is back there.
James Rhodes: Nice job.
Tony Stark: See you back at base.
[Replay of the attack in the first scene mixed with Tony have surgery and screaming. Tony wakes up suddenly with a tube up his nose, laying on a cot in a cave. He rips out the tube and tries to pick up a cup on the table beside him, but fails. He notices a man shaving and tries to reach further but is stopped by wires.]
Yinsen: I wouldn't do that if I were you.
[Tony realizes that he's connected to a battery. He rips off the bandages over his chest to see an electromagnet inside his chest]
[Yinsen and Tony sitting by a small fire. Yinsen is making food while Tony is using a mirror to look at his chest.]
Tony Stark: What the hell did you do to me?
Yinsen: What I did? What I did is to save your life. I removed all the shrapnel I could, but there's a lot left, and it's headed into your atrial septum. Here, want to see? [Pulls out a bottle of shrapnel.] I have a souvenir. Take a look. [Tosses the bottle to Tony] I've seen many wounds like that in my village. We call them the walking dead because it takes about a week for the barbs to reach the vital organs.
Tony Stark: What is this?
Yinsen: That is an electromagnet, hooked up to a car battery, and it's keeping the shrapnel from entering your heart. Hmm? [Tony sips up the jacket he's wearing and looks at the camera on the ceiling.] That's right. Smile. We met once, you know, at a technical conference in Bern.
Tony Stark: I don't remember.
Yinsen: No, you wouldn't. If I had been that drunk, I wouldn't have been able to stand, much less give a lecture on integrated circuits.
Tony Stark: Where are we?
[Loud voices sound from the another side of the metal door as they open it.]
Yinsen: Come on, stand up. Stand up! Just do as I do. Come on, put your hands up.
[Men walk in with guns.]
Tony Stark: Those are my guns. How did they get my guns?
Yinsen: Do you understand me? Do as I do. [A man starts speaking in Arabic. Yinsen translates for him.] He says, "Welcome, Tony Stark, the most famous mass murderer "in the history of America." [Man speaks in Arabic.] He is honored. [Man speaks in Arabic.] He wants you to build the missile. [Man speaks in Arabic.] The Jericho missile that you demonstrated. [Man speaks in Arabic, handing Yinsen a picture of the Jericho missile.] This one.
Tony Stark: I refuse. [Tony then is shown with his head in a large thing of water. Flashes of himself and the electromagnet in his chest are shown.]
Pepper Potts: Tony! [As a voice in his head as he tries not to drown.]
[The men pull him out, put a bag over his head, and escort him out of the cave. Tony sees a lot of men, tents, and his guns. The same man speaking Arabic before speaks again.]
Yinsen: He wants to know what you think.
Tony Stark: I think you got a lot of my weapons.
[Yinsen translates Tony's words into Arabic. The same man speaking Arabic responds]
Yinsen: He says they have everything you need to build the Jericho missile. He wants you to make the list of materials. [Man speaks Arabic again] He says for you to start working immediately, and when you're done, he will set you free.
Tony Stark: No, he won't. [Shaking the Arabic man's hand.]
Yinsen: No, he won't.
Yinsen: [Tony sitting around a small fire in the cave with Tony] I'm sure they're looking for you, Stark. But they will never find you in these mountains. Look, what you just saw, that is your legacy, Stark. Your life's work, in the hands of those murderers. Is that how you want to go out? Is this the last act of defiance of the great Tony Stark? Or are you going to do something about it?
Tony Stark: Why should I do anything? They're going to kill me, you, either way. And if they don't, I'll probably be dead in a week.
Yinsen: Well, then, this is a very important week for you, isn't it? Hm?
Tony Stark: [Directing the men to where to put things while Yinsen's translating] If this is going to be my work station, I want it well-lit. I want these up. I need welding gear. I don't care if it's acetylene or propane. I need a soldering station. I need helmets. I'm gonna need goggles. I would like a smelting cup. I need two sets of precision tools. [Yinsen and Tony start taking apart the weapons.] How many languages do you speak?
Yinsen: A lot. But apparently, not enough for this place. They speak Arabic, Urdu, Dari, Pashto, Mongolian, Farsi, Russian.
Tony Stark: Who are these people?
Yinsen: They are your loyal customers, sir. They call themselves the Ten Rings. [The men of the Ten Rings are shown watching Tony and Yinsen work on a TV.] You know, we might be more productive if you include me in the planning process.
Tony Stark: Uh-huh. [Tony pulls apart a missile.] Okay, we don't need this.
Yinsen: What is that?
Tony Stark: That's palladium, 0.15 grams. We need at least 1.6, so why don't you go break down the other 11?
Man #1: What's he doing? [speaking Arabic]
Man #2: Working. [speaking Arabic]
[Tony and Yinsen working on something. Yinsen is pulling something out of the fire.]
Tony Stark: Careful. Careful, we only get one shot at this.
Yinsen: Relax. I have steady hands. Why do you think you're still alive?
Tony Stark: What do I call you?
Yinsen: My name is Yinsen.
Tony Stark: Yinsen. Nice to meet you.
Yinsen: Nice to meet you, too. [Tony puts together a device while Yinsen watches.] Whoa. That doesn't look like a Jericho missile.
Tony Stark: That's because it's a miniaturized arc reactor. I got a big one powering my factory at home. It should keep the shrapnel out of my heart.
Yinsen: But what could it generate?
Tony Stark: If my math is right, and it always is, three gigajoules per second.
Yinsen: That could run your heart for 50 lifetimes.
Tony Stark: Yeah. Or something big for 15 minutes.
Tony Stark: [Looking at sheets of paper with Tony] This is our ticket out of here.
Yinsen: What is it?
Tony Stark: Flatten them out and look. [Yinsen flattens the sheets out to see a drawing of a metal suit.]
Yinsen: Oh, wow. Impressive.
[Security footage shows that the arc reactor was successfully put in Tony, allowing him more freedom of movement without having to carry the car battery around.]
[Tony and Yinsen playing a game.]
Yinsen: Good. Good roll. Good roll.
Tony Stark: You still haven't told me where you're from.
Yinsen: I'm from a small town called Gulmira. It's actually a nice place.
Tony Stark: Got a family?
Yinsen: Yes, and I will see them when I leave here. And you, Stark?
Tony Stark: No.
Yinsen: No? So you're a man who has everything and nothing.
[The men of the Ten Rings come to the door, armed. They open the hatch to see Tony and Yinsen working before turning around and leaving. Shows Tony welding metal together, while the Ten Rings watch the cameras and compare what he's creating with the Jericho picture.]
Man #1: It doesn't look anything like the picture. [Speaking Arabic]
Man #2: Maybe it's been modified. [Speaking Arabic]
Man #1: The tail is wrong. [Speaking Arabic]
Man #2: It's just backwards. [Speaking Arabic]
[The head of the Ten Rings, Raza, watches Tony and Yinsen test out one of the legs of the suit. He and his men go visit Tony and Yinsen.]
Raza: Relax. [Motioning for the two men to remove their hands from above their heads. They do so as Raza comes up and inspects Tony's arc reactor.] The bow and arrow once was the pinnacle of weapons technology. It allowed the great Genghis Khan to rule from the Pacific to the Ukraine. An empire twice the size of Alexander the Great and four times the size of the Roman Empire. But today, whoever holds the latest Stark weapons rules these lands. And soon, it will be my turn. [Starts speaking in Urdu as he stares down Tony.] Why have you failed me?
Yinsen: We're working. Diligently. [Speaking in Urdu.]
Raza: [Turns and walks toward Yinsen.] I let you live. This is how you repay me? [Speaking in Urdu.]
Yinsen: It's very complex. He's trying very hard. [Speaking in Urdu.]
Raza: On his knees. [He commands his men in Urdu. Yinsen is forced to his knees.] You think I'm a fool? I'll get the truth. [Speaking in Urdu as he takes a coal from the dying fire.]
Yinsen: We're both working. [Speaking in Urdu.]
Raza: Open your mouth. [Speaking in Urdu.]
Tony Stark: What does he want?
Raza: You think I'm a fool? What's going on? Tell me the truth. [Speaking in Urdu. Raza forces Yinsen's head to lay on the table.]
Yinsen: He's building your Jericho. He's building your Jericho. [Speaking in Urdu.]
Tony Stark: What do you want? A delivery date? [Tony tries to go towards Raza and Yinsen but the other men pull their guns on him.] I need him. Good assistant.
Raza: You have till tomorrow to assemble my missile.
[Tony is shown hammering the helmet of the suit to shape it. He cools it in water before setting on the table in front of Yinsen. Tony is shown wrapping his hands up and Yinsen lifting the suit up. Yinsen helps Tony suit up.]
Yinsen: Okay? Can you move? Okay, say it again.
Tony Stark: 41 steps straight ahead. Then 16 steps, that's from the door, fork right, 33 steps, turn right.
[Raza notices on the security screens that Stark cannot be seen.]
Raza: Where is Stark? [Speaking Arabic]
Man: He was here a moment ago. [Speaking Arabic]
Raza: Go look for him. [Speaking Arabic]
[The men rush to the cell.]
Man: Yinsen! Yinsen! Stark!
Tony Stark: Say something. Say something back to him.
Yinsen: He's speaking Hungarian. I don't...
Tony Stark: Then speak Hungarian.
Yinsen: Okay. I know.
Tony Stark: What do you know?
[The men are shouting through the door while Yinsen is shouting something back at them. The door is shown to have an explosive on it. The men try to open the door, only for it to explode. Raza watches this all on camera and orders his men down there.]
Tony Stark: How'd that work?
Yinsen: Oh, my goodness. It worked all right.
Tony Stark: That's what I do.
Yinsen: Let me finish this.
Tony Stark: Initialize the power sequence.
Yinsen: Okay.
Tony Stark: Now!
Yinsen: Tell me. Tell me.
Tony Stark: Function 11. Tell me when you see a progress bar. It should be up right now.
Yinsen: Yes.
Tony Stark: Talk to me. Tell me when you see it.
Yinsen: I have it.
Tony Stark: Press Control "l".
Yinsen: "I."
Tony Stark: "I." "Enter."
Yinsen: Got it.
Tony Stark: "l" and "Enter." Come over here and button me up.
Yinsen: Okay. All right.
Tony Stark: Every other hex bolt.
Yinsen: They're coming!
Tony Stark: Nothing pretty, just get it done. Just get it done.
Yinsen: They're coming.
Tony Stark: Make sure the checkpoints are clear before you follow me out, okay?
Yinsen: We need more time. Hey, I'm gonna go buy you some time.
Tony Stark: Stick to the plan! Stick to the plan! [Yinsen runs out of the cave with a gun from one of the dead men.] Yinsen! Yinsen!
[Tony watches the progress bar move while Yinsen aimlessly shoots the cave walls as he runs, scarring the men. Yinsen is stopped when he reaches the mouth of the cave and a group of men. The progress bar finishes loading, causing the lights to dim, and the suit to be powered. More men arrive in the cave to get Tony. Tony attacks them using the suit. On his way out of the cave, he attacks more of the men. Raza waits at the mouth of the cave. Tony arrives to see Yinsen has been shot.]
Tony Stark: Yinsen!
Yinsen: Watch out! [Raza tries to shoot at Tony but misses. Tony shoots back, hitting the wall behind Raza, causing a mini explosion and knocking Raza out.] Stark.
Tony Stark: Come on. [Tony opens is helmet.] We got to go. Move for me, come on. We got a plan. We're gonna stick to it.
Yinsen: This was always the plan, Stark.
Tony Stark: Come on, you're gonna go see your family. Get up.
Yinsen: My family is dead. I'm going to see them now, Stark. It's okay. I want this. I want this.
Tony Stark: Thank you for saving me.
Yinsen: Don't waste it. Don't waste your life.
[Yinsen dies. Tony turns angry. There are men waiting outside of the mouth of the cave. They all shoot at Tony in the suit, but don't do any damage.]
Tony Stark: My turn. [Tony shoots fire at the men and their camp from his suit. The men continue to shoot at Tony, beginning to cause damage to the suit. Tony flips a suit and shoots up in the air. He screams as he falls into the sand on the other side of the mountains. The suit breaks when he lands.] Not bad.
[Tony then is seen wondering through the desert, exhausted. Military helicopters fly up from behind him.]
Tony Stark: Hey! [Waving down the helicopters.] Hey!
[As one of the helicopters lands, Tony collapses to his knees, holding up a peace sign. Rhodey and a few men are seen running up to Tony from the helicopter.]
James Rhodes: How was the "fun-vee"? Next time, you ride with me, okay?
[California Military Base where a giant plane has just landed. Medical, Happy, and Pepper are waiting there. The ramp lowers and Rhodey helps Tony down.]
James Rhodes: Watch it, coming up here.
Tony Stark: Are you kidding me with this? Get rid of them. [Tony walks up to Pepper.] Your eyes are red. A few tears for your long-lost boss?
Pepper Potts: Tears of joy. I hate job hunting.
Tony Stark: Yeah, vacation's over.
[Tony, Pepper, and Happy get into the car.]
Happy: Where to, sir?
Pepper Potts: Take us to the hospital, please, Happy.
Tony Stark: No.
Pepper Potts: No? Tony, you have to go to the hospital.
Tony Stark: No is a complete answer.
Pepper Potts: The doctor has to look at you.
Tony Stark: I don't have to do anything. I've been in captivity for three months. There are two things I want to do. I want an American cheeseburger, and the other...
Pepper Potts: That's enough of that.
Tony Stark: ...is not what you think. I want you to call for a press conference now.
Pepper Potts: Call for a press conference?
Tony Stark: Yeah.
Pepper Potts: What on earth for?
Tony Stark: Hogan, drive. Cheeseburger first.
[Happy driving them up to Stark Industries HQ, where Obadiah is waiting with the press and their employees.]
Obadiah Stane: Look at this! Tony. We were going to meet at the hospital.
Tony Stark: No, I'm fine.
Obadiah Stane: Look at you! You had to have a burger, yeah?
Tony Stark: Well, come on.
Obadiah Stane: You get me one of those?
Tony Stark: There's only one left. I need it.
Obadiah Stane: Hey, look who's here! Yeah!
Agent Coulson: Miss Potts?
Pepper Potts: Yes.
Agent Coulson: Can I speak to you for a moment?
Pepper Potts: I'm not part of the press conference, but it's about to begin right now.
Agent Coulson: I'm not a reporter. I'm Agent Phil Coulson, with the Strategic Homeland Intervention, Enforcement and Logistics Division.
Pepper Potts: That's quite a mouthful.
Agent Coulson: I know. We're working on it.
Pepper Potts: You know, we've been approached already by the DOD, the FBI, the CIA...
Agent Coulson: We're a separate division with a more specific focus. We need to debrief Mr. Stark about the circumstances of his escape.
Pepper Potts: I'll put something in the book, shall I?
Agent Coulson: Thank you.
Obadiah Stane: Well, let's get this started, uh...
Tony Stark: Hey, would it be all right if everyone sat down? [Sitting in front of the podium.] Why don't you just sit down? That way you can see me, and I can... A little less formal and... [Tony takes a bite of his cheeseburger as everyone sits, or squats, down]
James Rhodes: What's up with the love-in?
Pepper Potts: Don't look at me. I don't know what he's up to.
Tony Stark: Good to see you.
Obadiah Stane: Good to see you.
Tony Stark: I never got to say goodbye to Dad. I never got to say goodbye to my father. There's questions that I would have asked him. I would have asked him how he felt about what this company did. If he was conflicted, if he ever had doubts. Or maybe he was every inch the man we all remember from the newsreels. I saw young Americans killed by the very weapons I created to defend them and protect them. And I saw that I had become part of a system that is comfortable with zero accountability.
Reporters: Mr. Stark!
Tony Stark: Hey, Ben.
Reporter (Ben): What happened over there?
Tony Stark: I had my eyes opened. [Tony stands and moves behind the podium.] I came to realize that I have more to offer this world than just making things that blow up. And that is why, effective immediately, I am shutting down the weapons manufacturing division of Stark International [Everyone stands up in commotion.] until such a time as I can decide what the future of the company will be.
Obadiah Stane: I think we're gonna be selling a lot of newspapers. [Standing up beside Tony.]
Tony Stark: What direction it should take, one that I'm comfortable with and is consistent with the highest good for this country, as well. [Tony leaves the stage.]
Obadiah Stane: What we should take away from this is that Tony's back! And he's healthier than ever. We're going to have a little internal discussion and we'll get back to you with the follow-up. [Obadiah is shown on a Segway, riding up to one of the Stark buildings. Happy leaning against a car outside.] Where is he?
Happy: He's inside.
[Obadiah goes inside to find Tony looking at the giant arc reactor.]
Obadiah Stane: Well, that..uh... That went well.
Tony Stark: Did I just paint a target on the back of my head?
Obadiah Stane: Your head? What about my head? What do you think the over-under on the stock drop is gonna be tomorrow?
Tony Stark: Uh, optimistically, 40 points.
Obadiah Stane: At minimum.
Tony Stark: Yep.
Obadiah Stane: Tony, we're a weapons manufacturer.
Tony Stark: Obie, I just don't want a body count to be our only legacy.
Obadiah Stane: That's what we do. We're iron mongers. We make weapons.
Tony Stark: It's my name on the side of the building.
Obadiah Stane: And what we do keeps the world from falling into chaos.
Tony Stark: Not based on what I saw. We're not doing a good enough job. We can do better. We're gonna do something else.
Obadiah Stane: Like what? You want us to make baby bottles?
Tony Stark: I think we should take another look into arc reactor technology.
Obadiah Stane: Ah, come on. The arc reactor, that's a publicity stunt! Tony, come on. We built that thing to shut the hippies up.
Tony Stark: It works.
Obadiah Stane: Yeah, as a science project. The arc was never cost effective. We knew that before we built it. Arc reactor technology, that's a dead end, right?
Tony Stark: Maybe.
Obadiah Stane: Huh? Am I right? We haven't had a breakthrough in that in what? Thirty years.
Tony Stark: That's what they say. Could you have a lousier poker face? Just tell me, who told you?
Obadiah Stane: Never mind who told me. Show me.
Tony Stark: It's Rhodey or Pepper.
Obadiah Stane: I want to see it.
Tony Stark: Okay, Rhodey. [Tony opens his shirt to show Obadiah the reactor in his chest.]
Obadiah Stane: Okay. [Obadiah begins to button Tony's shirt back up.]
Tony Stark: Okay? It works.
Obadiah Stane: Listen to me, Tony. We're a team. Do you understand? There's nothing we can't do if we stick together, like your father and I.
Tony Stark: I'm sorry I didn't give you a heads-up, okay? But if I had...
Obadiah Stane: Tony. Tony, no more of this "ready, fire, aim" business. You understand me?
Tony Stark: That was Dad's line.
Obadiah Stane: You gotta let me handle this. We're gonna have to play a whole different kind of ball now. We're going to have to take a lot of heat. I want you to promise me that you're gonna lay low.
[Stark Mansion, where Pepper is watching the news.]
Newcaster: Stark Industries! I've got one recommendation! Ready? Ready? Sell, sell, sell! Abandon ship! Does the Hindenburg ring any bells? Let me show you the new Stark Industries business plan! Look, that's a weapons company that doesn't make weapons!
Tony Stark: [Over the intercoms] Pepper. How big are your hands?
Pepper Potts: What?
Tony Stark: How big are your hands?
Pepper Potts: I don't understand why...
Tony Stark: Get down here. I need you. [Pepper enters Tony's workshop to find Tony lying shirtless on a chair.] Hey. Let's see them. Show me your hands. Let's see them. [Pepper holds up her hands as she comes closer.] Oh, wow. They are small. Very petite, indeed. I just uh.. need your help for a sec.
Pepper Potts: Oh, my God, is that the thing that's keeping you alive?
Tony Stark: It was. It is now an antique. This is what will be keeping me alive for the foreseeable future. I'm swapping it up for an upgraded unit, and I just ran into a little speed bump.
Pepper Potts: Speed bump, what does that mean?
Tony Stark: It's nothing. It's just a little snag. There's an exposed wire under this device. And it's contacting the socket wall and causing a little bit of a short. It's fine. [Tony pulls out the old device, handing it to Pepper.]
Pepper Potts: What do you want me to do?
Tony Stark: Put that on the table over there. That is irrelevant.
Pepper Potts: Oh, my God! [Setting the old reactor on the table.]
Tony Stark: I want you to reach in, and you're just gonna gently lift the wire out.
Pepper Potts: Is it safe?
Tony Stark: Yeah, it should be fine. It's like Operation. You just don't let it touch the socket wall or it goes "beep."
Pepper Potts: What do you mean, "Operation"?
Tony Stark: It's just a game, never mind. Just gently lift the wire.
Pepper Potts: Okay.
Tony Stark: Okay? Great.
Pepper Potts: You know, I don't think that I'm qualified to do this.
Tony Stark: No, you're fine. You're the most capable, qualified, trustworthy person I've ever met. You're gonna do great. Is it too much of a problem to ask? 'Cause I'm...
Pepper Potts: Okay, okay.
Tony Stark: I really need your help here.
Pepper Potts: Okay. [Slides her hand into the hole in Tony's chest.] Oh, there's pus!
Tony Stark: It's not pus. It's an inorganic plasmic discharge from the device, not from my body.
Pepper Potts: It smells!
Tony Stark: Yeah, it does. The copper wire. The copper wire, you got it?
Pepper Potts: Okay, I got it! I got it!
Tony Stark: Okay, you got it? Now, don't let it touch [Pepper lets it touch the side.] the sides when you're coming out!
Pepper Potts: I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Tony Stark: That's what I was trying to tell you before. Okay, now make sure that when you pull it out, that you don't... [Pepper pulls out the wire with the magnet attached and the medical equipment starts beeping.] There's a magnet at the end of it! That was it. You just pulled it out.
Pepper Potts: Oh, God!
Tony Stark: Okay, I was not expecting...
Pepper Potts: Okay, what do I do?
Tony Stark: Don't put it back in! Don't put it back in!
Pepper Potts: What's wrong?
Tony Stark: Nothing, I'm just going into cardiac arrest--
Pepper Potts: What? You said it was safe!
Tony Stark: 'cause you yanked it out like a trout... We gotta hurry. Take this. Take this. You gotta switch it out really quick.
Pepper Potts: Okay. Okay. Tony?
Tony Stark: What?
Pepper Potts: It's going to be okay. Okay?
Tony Stark: Is it?
Pepper Potts: It's gonna be okay. I'm gonna make this okay.
Tony Stark: Let's hope. Okay, you're gonna attach that to the base plate. Make s-sure you... [Screams went it attaches.] Was that so hard? That was fun, right? Here, I got it. I got it. Here. Nice.
Pepper Potts: Are you okay?
Tony Stark: Yeah, I feel great. You okay?
Pepper Potts: Don't ever, ever, ever, ever ask me to do anything like that ever again.
Tony Stark: I don't have anyone but you. Anyway... [Tony rips on the wires off and stands up.]
Pepper Potts: What do you want me to do with this? [Holding Tony's old reactor.]
Tony Stark: That? Destroy it. Incinerate it.
Pepper Potts: You don't want to keep it?
Tony Stark: Pepper, I've been called many things. "Nostalgic" is not one of them.
Pepper Potts: Will that be all, Mr. Stark?
Tony Stark: That will be all, Miss Potts. [Turns to talk to his robot while he eyes Pepper as she walks away.] Hey, Butterfingers, come here. What's all this stuff doing on top of my desk? That's my phone, that's a picture of me and my dad. Right there. In the garbage. All that stuff.
[Air Force Base where Rhodes is guiding a group of people through the hanger.]
James Rhodes: The future of air combat. Is it manned or unmanned? I'll tell you, in my experience, no unmanned aerial vehicle will ever trump a pilot's instinct, his insight, that ability to look into a situation beyond the obvious and discern its outcome, or a pilot's judgment.
Tony Stark: Colonel? Why not a pilot without the plane?
James Rhodes: Look who fell out of the sky. Mr. Tony Stark.
Man: Hello, sir.
Tony Stark: Speaking of manned or unmanned, you gotta get him to tell you about the time he guessed wrong at spring break. Just remember that, spring break, 1987. That lovely lady you woke up with.
James Rhodes: Don't do that!
Tony Stark: What was his name?
James Rhodes: Don't do that.
Tony Stark: Was it Ivan?
James Rhodes: Don't do that. They'll believe it.
Tony Stark: Okay.
James Rhodes: Don't do that.
Tony Stark: Okay.
James Rhodes: Don't do that.
Tony Stark: Pleasure meeting you.
James Rhodes: Give us a couple minutes, you guys. [The group walks off.] I'm surprised.
Tony Stark: Why?
James Rhodes: I swear, I didn't expect to see you walking around so soon.
Tony Stark: I'm doing a little better than walking.
James Rhodes: Really?
Tony Stark: Yeah. Rhodey, I'm working on something big. I came to talk to you. I want you to be a part of it.
James Rhodes: You're about to make a whole lot of people around here real happy, 'cause that little stunt at the press conference, that was a doozy.
Tony Stark: This is not for the military. I'm not... It's different.
James Rhodes: What? You're a humanitarian now or something?
Tony Stark: I need you to listen to me.
James Rhodes: No. What you need is time to get your mind right. I'm serious.
Tony Stark: Okay.
James Rhodes: It's nice seeing you, Tony. [Rhodey walks off.]
Tony Stark: Thanks.
[Tony in his workshop, working on his computer and hologram table.]
Tony Stark: JARVIS, you up?
JARVIS: For you, sir, always.
Tony Stark: I'd like to open a new project file, index as Mark Two.
JARVIS: Shall I store this on the Stark Industries Central Database?
Tony Stark: Actually, I don't know who to trust right now. Till further notice, why don't we just keep everything on my private server?
JARVIS: Working on a secret project, are we, sir?
Tony Stark: I don't want this winding up in the wrong hands. Maybe in mine, it can actually do some good.
[men from the Ten Rings searching the desert for Tony's suit. Shows that part of Raza's face was burned]
[Tony working on a boot for the new suit in his workshop. His robot, Dummy, is assisting him.]
Tony Stark: Next. Up. Not in the boot, Dummy. Right here. You got me? Stay put. Nice. You're of no benefit at all. Move down to the toe. I got this. Okay, I'm sorry, am I in your way? Up. Screw it. Don't even move. You are a tragedy.
[Tony wearing the boots in his workshop for a test flight. One of the robots is filming it, while Dummy is in charge of the fire extinguisher.]
Tony Stark: Okay, let's do this right. Start mark, half a meter, and back and center. Dummy, look alive. You're on standby for fire safety. You, roll it. Okay. Activate hand controls. We're gonna start off nice and easy. We're gonna see if 10% thrust capacity achieves lift. And three, two, one.
[Tony immediately flings back and hits the upper wall. Dummy uses the fire extinguisher on him. Tony is then seen working on flight stabilizers for his hands/arms. While he's working, Pepper comes in with a wrapped box and a cup of something.]
Tony Stark: Up two. All right, set that.
Pepper Potts: I've been buzzing you. Did you hear the intercom?
Tony Stark: Yeah, everything's... What? [Still distracted with the flight stabilizer.]
Pepper Potts: Obadiah's upstairs.
Tony Stark: Great!
Pepper Potts: What would you like me to tell him?
Tony Stark: Great. I'll be right up.
Pepper Potts: Okay. I thought you said you were done making weapons.
Tony Stark: It is. This is a flight stabilizer. It's completely harmless. [The stabilizer shoots, flinging Tony backwards and scaring Pepper.] I didn't expect that. [Tony then comes up stairs to find Obadiah playing the piano and Pepper working on the couch.] How'd it go? It went that bad, huh?
Obadiah Stane: Just because I brought pizza back from New York doesn't mean it went bad. [Still playing the piano.]
Tony Stark: Sure doesn't. Oh, boy.
Obadiah Stane: It would have gone better if you were there.
Tony Stark: Uh-huh. You told me to lay low. That's what I've been doing. I lay low, and you take care of all...
Obadiah Stane: Hey, come on. In public. The press. [Comes over to sit next to Tony.] This was a board of directors meeting.
Tony Stark: This was a board of directors meeting?
Obadiah Stane: The board is claiming you have post-traumatic stress. They're filing an injunction.
Tony Stark: A what?
Obadiah Stane: They want to lock you out.
Tony Stark: Why, 'cause the stocks dipped 40 points? We knew that was gonna happen.
Pepper Potts: Fifty-six and a half.
Tony Stark: It doesn't matter. We own the controlling interest in the company.
Obadiah Stane: Tony, the board has rights, too. They're making the case that you and your new direction isn't in the company's best interest.
Tony Stark: I'm being responsible! That's a new direction for me, for the company. I mean, me on the company's behalf being responsible for the way that... This is great. [Tony stands up, taking the pizza box with him. Obadiah follows.]
Obadiah Stane: Oh, come on. Tony. Tony.
Tony Stark: I'll be in the shop.
Obadiah Stane: Hey, hey! Hey, Tony. Listen. I'm trying to turn this thing around, but you gotta give me something. Something to pitch them. Let me have the engineers analyze that. You know, draw up some specs.
Tony Stark: No. No, absolutely not.
Obadiah Stane: It'll give me a bone to throw the boys in New York!
Tony Stark: This one stays with me. That's it, Obie. Forget it.
Obadiah Stane: All right, well, this stays with me, then. [Obadiah takes the pizza box back.] Go on, here, you can have a piece. Take two.
Tony Stark: Thank you.
Obadiah Stane: You mind if I come down there and see what you're doing?
Tony Stark: Good night, Obie. [Tony heads back down to his workshop]
Tony Stark: [running another flight test, this time wearing the boots and hand flight stabilizers] Day 11, test 37, configuration 2.0. For lack of a better option, Dummy is still on fire safety. If you douse me again, and I'm not on fire, I'm donating you to a city college. All right, nice and easy. Seriously, just gonna start off with 1% thrust capacity. And three, two, one. [Lifts off the ground and hovers for a bit before landing.] Okay. Please don't follow me around with it, either, 'cause I feel like I'm gonna catch on fire spontaneously. Just stand down! If something happens, then come in. And again, let's bring it up to 2.5. Three, two, one. [Lifts off the ground with less control and starts hovering all over the workshop.] Okay, this is where I don't want to be! Not the car, not the car! Table! Could be worse! Could be worse! We're fine! Okay. [Lands where he started. Dummy goes to use the fire extinguisher.] No! Uh-uh! Uh-uh! Yeah, I can fly.
[Tony fully suiting up in the Mark II.]
Tony Stark: JARVIS, are you there?
JARVIS: At your service, sir.
Tony Stark: Engage heads-up display.
JARVIS: Check.
Tony Stark: Import all preferences from home interface.
JARVIS: Will do, sir.
Tony Stark: All right, what do you say?
JARVIS: I have indeed been uploaded, sir. We're online and ready.
Tony Stark: Can we start the virtual walk-around?
JARVIS: Importing preferences and calibrating virtual environment.
Tony Stark: Do a check on control surfaces
JARVIS: As you wish. [The full suit is shown.] Test complete. Preparing to power down and begin diagnostics.
Tony Stark: Uh, yeah. Tell you what. Do a weather and ATC check. Start listening in on ground control.
JARVIS: Sir, there are still terabytes of calculations needed before an actual flight is...
Tony Stark: JARVIS! Sometimes you got to run before you can walk. Ready? In three, two, one. [Begins hovering and flies out of the garage into the sky.] Handles like a dream. All right, let's see what this thing can do. What's SR-71's record?
JARVIS: The altitude record for fixed wing flight is 85,000 feet, sir.
Tony Stark: Records are made to be broken! Come on! [Begins flying straight up.]
JARVIS: Sir, there is a potentially fatal buildup of ice occurring.
Tony Stark: Keep going! Higher! [Ice builds up around the suit, causing it to stop working and him to start flying from the sky.] We iced up, JARVIS! Deploy flaps! JARVIS! Come on, we got to break the ice!
[Tony manually gets the flaps up. The power starts just it time before he crashes into traffic. He heads back to the mansion and hovers above it, hoping to safely land on the roof.]
Tony Stark: Kill power.
[Power is killed and Tony falls through the roof, the piano, and down into his workshop, landing on top of a car. Dummy uses the fire extinguisher on him]
[Tony out of the suit, walking around the workshop with an ice pack on his head. He picks up the cup that Pepper left earlier and notices the package she left. On top, it has a sticky note saying 'from Pepper'. He takes it off and opens the package.]
Tony Stark: Notes. Main transducer feels sluggish at plus 40 altitude. Hull pressurization is problematic. I'm thinking icing is the probable factor.
JARVIS: A very astute observation, sir. Perhaps, if you intend to visit other planets, we should improve the exosystems.
Tony Stark: Connect to the sys. co. Have it reconfigure the shell metals. Use the gold titanium alloy from the seraphim tactical satellite. That should ensure a fuselage integrity while maintaining power-to-weight ratio. Got it?
JARVIS: Yes. Shall I render using proposed specifications?
Tony Stark: Thrill me.
TV Reporter: Tonight's red-hot red carpet is right here at the Disney Concert Hall, where Tony Stark's third annual benefit for the Firefighter's Family Fund has become the place to be for L.A.'s high society.
Tony Stark: JARVIS, we get an invite for that?
JARVIS: I have no record of an invitation, sir.
TV Reporter: ... hasn't been seen in public since his bizarre and highly controversial press conference. Some claim he's suffering from post traumatic stress and has been bedridden for weeks. Whatever the case may be, no one expects an appearance from him tonight.
JARVIS: The render is complete.
Tony Stark: A little ostentatious, don't you think?
JARVIS: What was I thinking? You're usually so discreet.
Tony Stark: Tell you what. Throw a little hot-rod red in there.
JARVIS: Yes, that should help you keep a low profile. The render is complete.
Tony Stark: Hey, I like it. Fabricate it. Paint it.
JARVIS: Commencing automated assembly. Estimated completion time is five hours.
Tony Stark: Don't wait up for me, honey.
Obadiah Stane: Weapons manufacturing is only one small part of what Stark Industries is all about, and our partnership with the fire and rescue community...
Random Woman: Hey, Tony, remember me?
Tony Stark: Sure don't. You look great, Hef.
Obadiah Stane: We're going to have a great quarter.
Tony Stark: What's the world coming to when a guy's got to crash his own party?
Obadiah Stane: Look at you. Hey, what a surprise.
Tony Stark: I'll see you inside.
Obadiah Stane: Hey. Listen, take it slow, all right? I think I got the board right where we want them
Tony Stark: You got it. Just cabin fever. I'll just be a minute. Give me a Scotch. I'm starving.
Agent Coulson: Mr. Stark?
Tony Stark: Yeah?
Agent Coulson: Agent Coulson.
Tony Stark: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. The guy from the..
Agent Coulson: Strategic Homeland Intervention, Enforcement and Logistics Division.
Tony Stark: God, you need a new name for that.
Agent Coulson: Yeah, I hear that a lot. Listen, I know this must be a trying time for you, but we need to debrief you. There's still a lot of unanswered questions, and time can be a factor with these things.
Tony Stark: Let's just put something on the books.
Agent Coulson: How about the 24th at 7:00 p.m. at Stark Industries?
Tony Stark: Tell you what. You got it. You're absolutely right. Well, I'm going to go to my assistant, and we'll make a date. You look fantastic! I didn't recognize you.
Pepper Potts: What are you doing here?
Tony Stark: Just avoiding government agents.
Pepper Potts: Are you by yourself?
Tony Stark: Yes. Where'd you get that dress?
Pepper Potts: Oh, it was a birthday present.
Tony Stark: That's great.
Pepper Potts: From you, actually.
Tony Stark: Well, I got great taste.
Pepper Potts: Yes.
Tony Stark: You want to dance?
Pepper Potts: Oh, no.
Tony Stark: All right, come on.
Pepper Potts: Thank you. No.
Tony Stark: Am I making you uncomfortable?
Pepper Potts: No. No. I always forget to wear deodorant and dance with my boss in front of everyone that I work with in a dress with no back.
Tony Stark: You look great and you smell great.
Pepper Potts: Oh, God.
Tony Stark: But I could fire you if that would take the edge off.
Pepper Potts: I actually don't think that you could tie your shoes without me.
Tony Stark: I'd make it a week. Sure.
Pepper Potts: Really? What's your Social Security number?
Tony Stark: Five.
Pepper Potts: Five?
Tony Stark: Right.
Pepper Potts: Right. You're missing just a couple of digits there.
Tony Stark: The other eight? So, I got you for the other eight. How about a little air?
Pepper Potts: Yes, I need some air. That was totally weird.
Tony Stark: Totally harmless.
Pepper Potts: It was totally not harmless, by the way.
Tony Stark: We're dancing. No one's even watching.
Pepper Potts: Everybody who I work with... No, you know why?
Tony Stark: I think you lost objectivity. I think they just... People... We just danced.
Pepper Potts: No, it was not just a dance. You don't understand because you're you. And everybody knows exactly who you are and how you are with girls and all of that, which is completely fine. But, you know, then me, you're my boss, and I'm dancing with you.
Tony Stark: I don't think it was taken that way.
Pepper Potts: Because it makes me look like the one who's trying to...
Tony Stark: I just think you're overstating it.
Pepper Potts: You know, and we're here, and then I'm wearing this ridiculous dress, and then we were dancing like that and... I would like a drink, please.
Tony Stark: Got it, okay.
Pepper Potts: I would like a vodka martini, please.
Tony Stark: Okay.
Pepper Potts: Very dry with olives, a lot of olives. Like, at least three olives.
Tony Stark: Two vodka martinis, extra dry, extra olives, extra fast. Make one of them dirty, will you?
Christine Everhart: Wow. Tony Stark.
Tony Stark: Oh, hey.
Christine Everhart: Fancy seeing you here.
Tony Stark: Carrie.
Christine Everhart: Christine.
Tony Stark: That's right.
Christine Everhart: You have a lot of nerve showing up here tonight. Can I at least get a reaction from you?
Tony Stark: Panic. I would say panic is my reaction.
Christine Everhart: 'Cause I was referring to your company's involvement in this latest atrocity
Tony Stark: Yeah. They just put my name on the invitation. I don't know what to tell you.
Christine Everhart: I actually almost bought it, hook, line and sinker.
Tony Stark: I was out of town for a couple months, in case you didn't hear.
Christine Everhart: Is this what you call accountability? It's a town called Gulmira. Heard of it?
Tony Stark: When were these taken?
Christine Everhart: Yesterday.
Tony Stark: I didn't approve any shipment.
Christine Everhart: Well, your company did.
Tony Stark: Well, I'm not my company.
Obadiah Stane: Please, do you mind?
Tony Stark: Have you seen these pictures? What's going on in Gulmira?
Obadiah Stane: Tony, Tony. You can't afford to be this naive.
Tony Stark: You know what? I was naive before, when they said, "Here's the line. We don't cross it. This is how we do business." If we're double-dealing under the table... Are we?
Reporter: Tony, your picture, please!
Obadiah Stane: Let's take a picture. Come on. Picture time! Tony. Who do you think locked you out? I was the one who filed the injunction against you. It was the only way I could protect you.
Obadiah Stane: No. No.
TV Reporter: The 15-mile hike to the outskirts of Gulmira can only be described as a descent into hell, into a modern-day Heart of Darkness. Simple farmers and herders from peaceful villages have been driven from their homes, displaced from their lands by warlords emboldened by a new-found power. Villagers have been forced to take shelter in whatever crude dwellings they can find in the ruins of other villages, or here in the remnants of an old Soviet smelting plant. Recent violence has been attributed to a group of foreign fighters referred to by locals as the Ten Rings. As you can see, these men are heavily armed and on a mission. A mission that could prove fatal to anyone who stands in their way. With no political will or international pressure, there's very little hope for these refugees. Around me, a woman begging for news on her husband, who was kidnapped by insurgents, either forced to join their militia. Desperate refugees clutch yellowed photographs, holding them up to anyone who will stop. A child's simple question, "Where are my mother and father?" There's very little hope for these refugees, refugees who can only wonder who, if anyone, will help.
Tony Stark: He's all yours.
Captain: What the hell was that? Were we cleared to go in there?
CAOC Analyst #1: No sir, they were using human shields. We never got the green light
Major Allen: Put me through to State. They're going to be all over this.
CAOC Analyst (offscreen): Get those monitors up!
CAOC Analyst (offscreen): We got a bogey!
CAOC Analyst (offscreen): Wasn't Air Force!
Major Allen: We got the CIA on the line?
Captain: I've got Langley on the line. They want to know if it's us.
CAOC Analyst #1: No, it definitely is not us, sir!
CAOC Analyst #2: It wasn't Navy.
CAOC Analyst #3: Wasn't Marines.
Major Allen: I need answers! Can I please get eyes on target?
CAOC Analyst (offscreen): Negative, negative. Cannot identify.
Major Allen: Get me Colonel Rhodes from weapons development down here now!
Major Allen: We ran an ID check and cross-referenced with all known databases. We have nothing.
James Rhodes: Any high-altitude surveillance in the region?
Captain: We got an AWAC and a Global Hawk in the area.
James Rhodes: So, this thing just appeared out of nowhere? How come it didn't show up on the radar?
CAOC Analyst #1: Got a minimal radar cross-section, sir.
James Rhodes: Is it stealth?
CAOC Analyst #1: No, sir, it's tiny. We think it's an unmanned aerial vehicle.
Major Allen: Colonel, what are we dealing with here?
James Rhodes: Let me make a call.
Major Allen: Sergeant, clear a hole.
Tony Stark: Hello?
James Rhodes: Tony?
Tony Stark: Who's this?
James Rhodes: It's Rhodes.
Tony Stark: Sorry, hello?
James Rhodes: I said it's Rhodes.
Tony Stark: Speak up, please.
James Rhodes: What in the hell is that noise?
Tony Stark: Oh, yeah, I'm driving with the top down.
James Rhodes: Yeah, well, I need your help right now.
Tony Stark: It's funny how that works, huh?
James Rhodes: Yeah. Speaking of funny, we've got a weapons depot that was just blown up a few clicks from where you were being held captive.
Tony Stark: Well, that's a hot spot. Sounds like someone stepped in and did your job for you, huh?
James Rhodes: Why do you sound out of breath, Tony?
Tony Stark: I'm not, I was just jogging in the canyon.
James Rhodes: I thought you were driving.
Tony Stark: Right, I was driving to the canyon, where I'm going to jog.
James Rhodes: You sure you don't have any tech in that area I should know about?
Tony Stark: Nope!
CAOC Analyst (offscreen): Bogey spotted!
CAOC Analyst (offscreen): Whiplash, come in hot.
James Rhodes: Okay, good, 'cause I'm staring at one right now, and it's about to be blown to kingdom come.
Tony Stark: That's my exit.
Pilot #1: Ballroom, this is Whiplash One. I've got the bogey in my sights.
James Rhodes: Whiplash One, what is it?
Pilot #1: I've got no idea.
Major Allen: You have radio contact?
Pilot #1: Non responsive, sir.
Major Allen: Then you are clear to engage.
Tony Stark: Hit it.
Pilot #1: That bogey just went supersonic. I got a lock!
JARVIS: Inbound missile.
Tony Stark: Flares!
Pilot #1: Wait a second. Bogey deployed flares!
Tony Stark: Deploy flaps!
Pilot #2: Holy!
CAOC Analyst (offscreen): That thing just jumped off the radar, sir.
CAOC Analyst #2: The sat visual has been lost.
Pilot #1: No way that's a UAV.
Major Allen: What is it?
Pilot #2: I can't see anything.
Pilot #1: Whatever it was, it just bought the farm. I think bogey's been handled, sir.
James Rhodes: Hello?
Tony Stark: Hi, Rhodey, it's me.
James Rhodes: It's who?
Tony Stark: I'm sorry, it is me. You asked. What you were asking about is me.
James Rhodes: No, see, this isn't a game. You do not send civilian equipment into my active war zone. You understand that?
Tony Stark: This is not a piece of equipment. I'm in it. It's a suit. It's me!
Major Allen: Rhodey, you got anything for me?
Major Allen: Mark your position and return to base.
Pilot #1: Roger that, Ballroom.
Pilot #1: On your belly! It looks like a man! Shake him off! Roll! Roll! I'm hit! I'm hit!
It's confirmed. He has been hit.
Pilot #2: Punch out! Punch out! Whiplash One down.
Whiplash Two, do you see a chute?
Pilot #2: Negative! No chute, no chute!
Pilot #1: My chute's jammed!
Pilot #2: Sir, I've got a visual on the bogey.
Major Allen: Whiplash Two, reengage. If you get a clear shot, you take it.
James Rhodes: Major, we don't even know what we're shooting at. Call off the Raptors.
Major Allen: That thing just took out an F-22 inside a legal no fly zone! Whiplash Two, if you have a clear shot, take it!
JARVIS: You've been reengaged. Execute evasive maneuver.
Tony Stark1: Keep going!
Pilot #2: Good chute! Good chute!
James Rhodes: Tony, you still there?
Tony Stark: Hey, thanks.
James Rhodes: Oh, my God, you crazy son of a bitch. You owe me a plane. You know that, right?
Tony Stark: Yeah, well, technically, he hit me. Now are you going to come by and see what I'm working on?
James Rhodes: No, no, no, no, no, no, the less I know, the better. Now, what am I supposed to tell the press?
Tony Stark: Training exercise. Isn't that the usual BS?
James Rhodes: It's not that simple. An unfortunate training exercise involving an F-22 Raptor occurred yesterday. I am pleased to report that the pilot was not injured. As for the unexpected turn of events on the ground in Gulmira, it is still unclear who or what intervened, but I can assure you that the United States government was not involved.
Tony Stark: Hey!
JARVIS: It is a tight fit, sir. Sir, the more you struggle, the more this is going to hurt.
Tony Stark: Be gentle. This is my first time. I designed this to come off, so... Hey. I really should be able to...
JARVIS: Please, try not to move, sir.
Pepper Potts: What's going on here?
Tony Stark: Let's face it. This is not the worst thing you've caught me doing.
Pepper Potts: Are those bullet holes?
Raza: Welcome. Compliments of Tony Stark.
Obadiah Stane: If you'd killed him when you were supposed to, you'd still have a face.
Raza: You paid us trinkets to kill a prince.
Obadiah Stane: Show me the weapon.
Raza: Come. Leave your guards outside. [Raza and Stane walk inside the tent] His escape bore unexpected fruit.
Obadiah Stane: So this is how he did it.
Raza: This is only a first, crude effort. Stark has perfected his design. He has made a masterpiece of death. A man with a dozen of these can rule all of Asia. And you dream of Stark's throne. We have a common enemy. If we are still in business, I will give you these designs... as a gift. And in turn, I hope you'll repay me with a gift of iron soldiers.
Obadiah Stane: Technology. [Stane uses a machine to stun Raza] It's always been your Achilles' heel in this part of the world. Don't worry. It'll only last for 15 minutes. That's the least of your problems. [Stane walks out of the tent] Crate up the armor and the rest of it. All right, let's finish up here.
Obadiah Stane: [Talking in the phone while in a car] Set up Sector 16 underneath the arc reactor, and I'm going to want this data masked. Recruit our top engineers. I want a prototype right away.
Tony Stark: Hey. You busy? You mind if I send you on an errand? I need you to go to my office. You're going to hack into the mainframe and you're going to retrieve all the recent shipping manifests. This is a lock chip. This'll get you in. It's probably under Executive Files. If not, they put it on a ghost drive, in which case you need to look for the lowest numeric heading.
Pepper Potts: And what do you plan to do with this information if I bring it back here?
Tony Stark: Same drill. They've been dealing under the table, and I'm going to stop them. I'm going to find my weapons and destroy them.
Pepper Potts: Tony, you know that I would help you with anything, but I cannot help you if you're going to start all of this again.
Tony Stark: There is nothing except this. There's no art opening. There is no benefit. There is nothing to sign. There is the next mission and nothing else.
Pepper Potts: Is that so? Well, then, I quit. [Pepper throws the lock chip on the table.]
Tony Stark: You stood by my side all these years while I reaped the benefits of destruction. And now that I'm trying to protect the people that I put in harm's way, you're going to walk out?
Pepper Potts: You're going to kill yourself, Tony. I'm not going to be a part of it.
Tony Stark: I shouldn't be alive, unless it was for a reason. I'm not crazy, Pepper. I just finally know what I have to do. And I know in my heart that it's right.
Pepper Potts: [Pepper picks the lock drive back up.] You're all I have, too, you know. [In Stark's office, Pepper goes on a computer to use the drive.] Sector 16? What are you up to, Obadiah? [She finds a video of Stark held hostage and translates it.]
Video Voice Over: You did not tell us that the target you paid us to kill was the great Tony Stark. As you can see, Obadiah Stane...
Pepper Potts: Oh, my God.
Video Voice Over: ... your deception and lies will cost you dearly. The price to kill Tony Stark has just gone up.
Obadiah Stane: [Walks in on Pepper.] So, what are we going to do about this? I know what you're going through, Pepper. Tony. He always gets the good stuff, doesn't he? I was so happy when he came home. It was like we got him back from the dead. Now I realize, well, Tony never really did come home, did he? He left a part of himself in that cave. Breaks my heart.
Pepper Potts: Well, he's a complicated person. He's been through a lot. I think he'll be all right.
Obadiah Stane: You are a very rare woman. Tony doesn't know how lucky he is.
Pepper Potts: Thank you. Thanks. I'd better get back there. [Pulls the drive out, hiding it under a newspaper.]
Obadiah Stane: Is that today's paper?
Pepper Potts: Yes.
Obadiah Stane: Do you mind?
Pepper Potts: Not at all.
Obadiah Stane: Puzzle.
Pepper Potts: Of course.
Obadiah Stane: Take care. [Goes on the computer and sees that the files have been downloaded.]
Agent Coulson: Ms. Potts? We had an appointment. Did you forget about our appointment?
Pepper Potts: Nope, right now. Come with me.
Agent Coulson: Right now?
Pepper Potts: We're going to have it right now. Yeah, walk with me.
Agent Coulson: Okay.
Pepper Potts: I'm going to give you the meeting of your life. Your office.
William: [On the phone.] Yeah, we've been working our best to do it. Absolutely, we're... I'm going to have to call you back. [Ends the call as Stane walks in] Mr. Stane? Sir, we've explored what you've asked us, and it seems as though there's a little hiccup. Actually...
Obadiah Stane: A hiccup?
William: Yes, to power the suit, sir, the technology actually doesn't exist. So, it's...
Obadiah Stane: Wait, wait, wait. The technology? William, here is the technology. I've asked you to simply make it smaller.
William: Okay, sir, and that's what we're trying to do, but honestly, it's impossible.
Obadiah Stane: Tony Stark was able to build this in a cave! With a box of scraps!
William: Well, I'm sorry. I'm not Tony Stark.
Pepper Potts: [On the phone.] Tony? Tony, are you there? Hello?
Obadiah Stane: [Stuns Stark with the same machine as he did Raza.] Breathe. Easy, easy. You remember this one, right? It's a shame the government didn't approve it. There's so many applications for causing short-term paralysis. Tony. When I ordered the hit on you, I worried that I was killing the golden goose. But, you see, it was just fate that you survived that. [Pulls out the arc reactor from Starks chest.] You had one last golden egg to give. Do you really think that just because you have an idea, it belongs to you? Your father, he helped give us the atomic bomb. Now, what kind of world would it be today if he was as selfish as you? Oh, it's beautiful. Tony, this is your Ninth Symphony. What a masterpiece. Look at that. This is your legacy. A new generation of weapons with this at its heart. Weapons that will help steer the world back on course, put the balance of power in our hands. The right hands. I wish you could've seen my prototype. It's not as... Well, not as conservative as yours. Too bad you had to involve Pepper in this. I would have preferred that she lived.
James Rhodes: [On the phone.] What do you mean, he paid to have Tony killed? Pepper, slow down. Why would Obadiah... Okay, where's Tony now?
Pepper Potts: [On the phone.] I don't know. He's not answering his phone. Please go over there and make sure everything's okay. Thank you, Rhodey. I know a shortcut.
Tony Stark: [Dummy hands Stark Pepper's gift] Good boy.
James Rhodes: Tony? Tony? Tony? Tony? Tony! Tony! You okay?
Tony Stark: Where's Pepper?
James Rhodes: She's fine. She's with five agents. They're about to arrest Obadiah.
Tony Stark: That's not going to be enough.
Pepper Potts: Section 16. Section 16. There it is. My key's not working. It's not opening the door. Oh, wow! What's that? It's, like, a little device. It's, like, a thing that's going to pick the lock?
Agent Coulson: You might want to take a few steps back.
James Rhodes: That's the coolest thing I've ever seen.
Tony Stark: Not bad, huh? Let's do it.
James Rhodes: You need me to do anything else?
Tony Stark: Keep the skies clear.
James Rhodes: Damn! Next time, baby.
Agent Coulson: Looks like you were right. He was building a suit.
Pepper Potts: I thought it'd be bigger.
Tony Stark: How do you think the Mark One chest piece is going to hold up?
JARVIS: The suit's at 48% power and falling, sir. That chest piece was never designed for sustained flight.
Tony Stark: Keep me posted. Pepper!
Pepper Potts: Tony! Tony, are you okay?
Tony Stark: I'm fine. How are...
Pepper Potts: Obadiah, he's gone insane!
Tony Stark: I know. Listen, you'd better get out of there.
Pepper Potts: He built a suit.
Tony Stark: Get out of there right now!
Obadiah Stane: Where do you think you're going? Your services are no longer required.
Tony Stark: Stane!
Obadiah Stane: I love this suit!
Tony Stark: Put them down!
Obadiah Stane: Collateral damage, Tony.
Tony Stark: Divert power to chest RT.
Jarvis: Power reduced to 19%.
Tony Stark: Lady! No, no, no, no, no, no!
Obadiah Stane: For 30 years, I've been holding you up! I built this company from nothing! Nothing is going to stand in my way. Least of all... you! Impressive. You've upgraded your armor! I've made some upgrades of my own!
JARVIS: Sir, it appears that his suit can fly.
Tony Stark: Duly noted. Take me to maximum altitude.
JARVIS: With only 15% power, the odds of reaching that--
Tony Stark: I know the math! Do it!
Soldier 1: Sir, you're not going to believe this. That thing is back.
Soldier 2: Get me Major Allen. Scramble the jets!
James Rhodes: Not necessary, people. Just a training exercise.
Soldier 1: Yes, sir.
JARVIS: Thirteen percent power, sir.
Tony Stark: Climb!
JARVIS: Eleven percent.
Tony Stark: Keep going!
JARVIS: Seven percent power.
Tony Stark: Just leave it on the screen! Stop telling me!
Obadiah Stane: You had a great idea, Tony, but my suit is more advanced in every way!
Tony Stark: How'd you solve the icing problem?
Obadiah Stane: Icing problem?
Tony Stark: Might want to look into it.
JARVIS: Two percent. We are now running on emergency backup power.
Tony Stark: Woah! Potts!
Pepper Potts: Tony! Oh, my God, are you okay?
Tony Stark: I'm almost out of power. I've got to get out of this thing. I'll be right there.
Obadiah Stane: Nice try!
Tony Stark: Weapons status?
JARVIS: Repulsors offline. Missiles offline.
Tony Stark: Flares!
Obadiah Stane: Very clever, Tony.
Tony Stark: Potts?
Pepper Potts: Tony!
Tony Stark: This isn't working. We're going to have to overload the reactor and blast the roof.
Pepper Potts: Well, how are you going to do that?
Tony Stark: You're going to do it. Go to the central console, open up all the circuits. When I get clear of the roof, I'll let you know. You're going to hit the master bypass button. It's going to fry everything up here.
Pepper Potts: Okay. I'm going in now.
Tony Stark: Make sure you wait till I clear the roof. I'll buy you some time. This looks important! [Pulls out a wire from Obadiah Stane's suit.]
Obadiah Stane: I never had a taste for this sort of thing, but I must admit, I'm deeply enjoying the suit! You finally outdid yourself, Tony! You'd have made your father proud!
Pepper Potts: It's ready, Tony! Get off the roof! Tony!
Obadiah Stane: How ironic, Tony! Trying to rid the world of weapons, you gave it its best one ever!
Tony Stark: Pepper!
Obadiah Stane: And now I'm going to kill you with it! You ripped out my targeting system!
Tony Stark: Time to hit the button!
Pepper Potts: You told me not to!
Obadiah Stane: Hold still, you little prick!
Tony Stark: Just do it!
Pepper Potts: You'll die!
Tony Stark: Push it!
Pepper Potts: Tony!
James Rhodes: [On the TV] You've all received the official statement of what occurred at Stark Industries last night. There have been unconfirmed reports that a robotic prototype malfunctioned and caused damage to the arc reactor. Fortunately, a member of Tony Stark's personal security staff...
Tony Stark: "Iron Man." That's kind of catchy. It's got a nice ring to it. I mean, it's not technically accurate. The suit's a gold-titanium alloy, but it's kind of evocative, the imagery, anyway.
Agent Coulson: Here's your alibi.
Tony Stark: Okay?
Agent Coulson: You were on your yacht.
Tony Stark: Yeah.
Agent Coulson: We have port papers that put you in Avalon all night, and sworn statements from 50 of your guests.
Tony Stark: See, I was thinking maybe we should say it was just Pepper and me alone on the island.
Agent Coulson: That's what happened.
Tony Stark: All right.
Agent Coulson: Just read it, word for word.
Tony Stark: There's nothing about Stane here.
Agent Coulson: That's being handled. He's on vacation. Small aircraft have such a poor safety record.
Tony Stark: But what about the whole cover story that it's a bodyguard? He's my... I mean, is that... That's kind of flimsy, don't you think?
Agent Coulson: This isn't my first rodeo, Mr. Stark. Just stick to the official statement, and soon, this will all be behind you. You've got 90 seconds.
Pepper Potts: Agent Coulson? I just wanted to say thank you very much for all of your help.
Agent Coulson: That's what we do. You'll be hearing from us.
Pepper Potts: From the Strategic Homeland...
Agent Coulson: Just call us S.H.I.E.L.D.
Pepper Potts: Right. Let's get this show on the road.
Tony Stark: You know, it's actually not that bad. Even I don't think I'm Iron Man.
Pepper Potts: You're not Iron Man.
Tony Stark: Am so.
Pepper Potts: You're not.
Tony Stark: All right, suit yourself. You know, if I were Iron Man, I'd have this girlfriend who knew my true identity. She'd be a wreck, 'cause she'd always be worrying that I was going to die, yet so proud of the man I'd become. She'd be wildly conflicted, which would only make her more crazy about me. Tell me you never think about that night.
Pepper Potts: What night?
Tony Stark: You know.
Pepper Potts: Are you talking about the night that we danced and went up on the roof, and then you went downstairs to get me a drink, and you left me there, by myself? Is that the night you're talking about? Thought so. Will that be all, Mr. Stark?
Tony Stark: Yes, that will be all, Miss Potts.
James Rhodes: And now, Mr. Stark has prepared a statement. He will not be taking any questions.
Tony Stark: Thank you. Been a while since I was in front of you. I figure I'll stick to the cards this time. There's been speculation that I was involved in the events that occurred on the freeway and the rooftop...
Christine Everhart: I'm sorry, Mr. Stark, but do you honestly expect us to believe that that was a bodyguard in a suit that conveniently appeared, despite the fact that you...
Tony Stark: I know that it's confusing. It is one thing to question the official story, and another thing entirely to make wild accusations, or insinuate that I'm a superhero.
Christine Everhart: I never said you were a superhero.
Tony Stark: Didn't? Well, good, because that would be outlandish and fantastic. I'm just not the hero type. Clearly. With this laundry list of character defects, all the mistakes I've made, largely public.
James Rhodes: Just stick to the cards, man.
Tony Stark: Yeah, okay. Yeah. The truth is... I am Iron Man.
[After end-credits. Tony reaches home]
Tony Stark: Jarvis!
JARVIS: [distorted] Welcome home, Sir. [Jarvis cuts out]
Nick Fury: "I am Iron Man." You think you're the only superhero in the world? Mr. Stark, you've become part of a bigger universe. You just don't know it yet.
Tony Stark: Who the hell are you?
Nick Fury: [appears in light] Nick Fury, Director of S.H.I.E.L.D.
Tony Stark: [nonchalantly] Ah.
Nick Fury: I'm here to talk to you about the Avengers Initiative.Man (V.O): 270 at 30 knots. Holding steady at 15000 feet. You are clear for exfiltration over the drop zone
(ACDCs Shoot to Thrill starts to play)
6 MONTHS LATER
(And a picture of Iron Man with an opening door in the bottom of an aeroplane. And he jumps out said aeroplane, landing on a stage. All very ostentatious. Dancing girls. Fireworks.)
STARK EXPO  FLUSHING, NEW YORK.
(Dismantling Iron Man suit.)
Pretty much everyone in the crowd: Tony! Tony! Tony! Tony!
Tony Stark: Its good to be back. You missed me?
Man in crowd: Blow something up!
Tony Stark: I missed you too. Blow something up? I already did that. Im not saying that the world is enjoying its longest period of uninterrupted peace in years because of me. Im not saying that from the ashes of captivity, never has a greater phoenix metaphor been personified in human history. Im not saying that Uncle Sam can kick back on a lawn chair, sipping on an iced tea because I havent come across anyone whos man enough to go toe-to-toe with me on my best day.
Woman in crowd: I love you Tony!
Tony Stark: Please, its not about me. [People still cheering Tony] Its not about you. Its not even about us. Its about legacy. Its about what we choose to leave behind for future generations. And thats why for the next year and for the first time since 1974, the best and brightest men and women of nations and corporations the world over will pool their resources, share their collective vision, to leave behind a brighter future. Its not about us. Therefore, what Im saying, if Im saying anything, is welcome back to the Stark Expo. [Big cheer from crowd.] And now, making a special guest appearance from the great beyond to tell you what its all about, please welcome my father, Howard.
Howard Stark (on a screen, courtesy of a video recording): Everything is achievable through technology. Better living, robust health, and for the first time in human history, the possibility of world peace. So, from all of us here at Stark Industries, I would like to personally introduce you to the City of the Future. Technology holds infinite possibilities for mankind, [Tony is off the stage, doing something. Blood toxicity test. Gives a reading of 19%. Not good] and will one day rid society of all its ills. Soon technology will affect the way you live your life every day. No more tedious work, leaving more time for leisure activities and enjoying the sweet life. The Stark Expo. Welcome.
[Video ends. Cut to news feed of reporter outside.]
Reporter: We are coming to you live from the kickoff at the Stark Expo, where Tony Stark has just walked offstage. Dont worry if you cant make it down here tonight because this Expo goes on all year long. And Im gonna be here checking out all the attractions and the pavilions and inventions from all around the world.
Happy Hogan: Make sure you join me
Tony Stark: All right, its a zoo out there, watch out.
Happy Hogan: Open up, lets go.
[Image is Tony trying to pass through the crowd, from Tonys perspective.]
Tony Stark: Hey, nice to see you. All right. Thank you. I remember you.
People: Tony, Tony
Tony Stark: Hey, hey.
Woman: Call me.
Happy Hogan: Hey, hey, hey, hey. Come on, come on.
Tony Stark: [signing a picture of Iron Man] Hello. It would be a pleasure.
Happy Hogan: Okay.
Tony Stark: [what would be ruffling the hair of a small boy if said small boy were not wearing an Iron Man helmet making hair unreachable] See you buddy.
Happy Hogan: This is Larry.
Tony Stark: Hey, the oracle of Oracle. What a pleasure. Nice to see you.
Larry King: Call me. Call me.
Happy Hogan: Larry King.
Tony Stark: Larry! Larry. Yes, my people, my people.
Happy Hogan: [Scene shows them finally at the door] Come on, Tony. There we go.
Tony Stark: Very mellow.
Happy Hogan: That wasnt so bad.
Tony Stark: No, it was perfect.
Happy Hogan: Look what we got here, the new model.
Tony Stark: Hey, does she come with the car?
Happy Hogan: I certainly hope so. Hi.
Tony Stark: Hi. And you are?
Woman: Marshal.
Tony Stark: Irish. I like it.
Marshal: Pleased to meet you Tony.
Tony Stark: Im on the wheel. Do you mind? Where you from?
Marshal: Bedford.
Tony Stark: What are you doing here?
Marshal: Looking for you.
Tony Stark: Yeah? You found me. What are you up to later?
Marshal: Serving subpoenas. [Hands him a letter. Tony doesnt take it]
Tony Stark: Yikes.
Happy Hogan: [Reaching over and taking the letter] He doesnt like to be handed things.
Tony Stark: Yeah, I have a peeve.
Marshal: I got it. You are hereby ordered to appear before the Senate Armed Services Committee tomorrow morning at 9 am.
Tony Stark: Can I see a badge?
Marshal: You wanna see the badge?
Happy Hogan: He likes the badge.
Marshal: [showing him her badge.] You still like it?
Tony Stark: Yep. [Starts engine] How far are we from D.C.?
Happy Hogan: D.C.? 250 miles.
[Drive off. Image slides over, like when you used to make Powerpoints with all the transitions. It now shows Washing D.C. You can tell because words appear saying]
WASHINGTON D.C.
Senator Stern: Mr Stark, could we pick up now where we left off? Mr Stark. Please.
Tony Stark: [turns around from where he was trying to talk to Pepper who looks like she was trying to tell him off.] Yes dear?
Senator Stern: Can I have your attention?
Tony Stark: Absolutely.
Stern: Do you or do you not possess a specialised weapon?
Tony Stark: I do not.
Stern: You do not?
Tony Stark: I do not. Well, it depends on how you define the word weapon.
Stern: The Iron Man weapon.
Tony Stark: My device does not fit that description.
Stern: Well How would you describe it?
Tony Stark: I would describe it by defining it as what it is, Senator.
Stern: As?
Tony Stark: Its a high-tech prosthesis. That is That is Thats actually the most apt description I can make of it.
Stern: Its a weapon. Its a weapon, Mr Stark.
Tony Stark: Please, if your priority was actually the well-being of the American citizen
Stern: My priority is to get the Iron Man weapon turned over to the people of the United States of America.
Tony Stark: Well, you can forget it. I am Iron Man. The suit and I are one. To turn over the Iron Man suit would be to turn over myself which is tantamount to indentured servitude or prostitution, depending or what state youre in. You cant have it.
Stern: Look, Im no expert
Tony Stark: In prostitution? Of course not. Youre a senator. Come on.
[People laugh. He waves. Pepper does not look impressed at all. He mouths no? and she shakes her head.]
Stern: Im no expert in weapons. We have somebody here who is an expert on weapons. Id now like to call Justin Hammer, our current primary weapons contractor.
Tony Stark: Let the record reflect that I observed Mr Hammer entering the chamber, and I am wondering if and when any actual expert will also be in attendance.
Justin Hammer: Absolutely. Im no expert. I defer to you, Anthony. Youre the wonder boy. Senator, if I may. I may well not be an expert, but you know who was the expert? Your dad. Howard Stark. Really a father to us all, and to the military-industrial age. Lets just be clear, he was no flower child. He was a lion. We all know why were here. In the last six months, Anthony Stark has created a sword with untold possibilities. And yet, he insists its a shield. He asks us to trust him as we cower behind it. I wish I were comforted, Anthony, I really do. Id love to leave my door unlocked when I leave the house, but this aint Canada. You know, we live in a world of grave threats, threats that Mr Stark will not always be able to foresee. Thank you. God bless Iron Man. God bless America.
Stern: That is well said Mr Hammer. The committee would now like to invite Lieutenant Colonel James Rhodes to the chamber.
Tony Stark: Rhodey? What?
[Rhodey walks in, Tony gets up to greet him] \
Tony Stark: Hey, buddy. I didnt expect to see you here.
Rhodey: Look, its me, Im here. Deal with it. Lets move on.
Tony Stark: I just
Rhodey: Drop it.
Tony Stark: All right, Ill drop it.
Stern: I have before me a complete report on the Iron Man weapon, complied by Colonel Rhodes. And, Colonel, for the record, can you please read page 57, paragraph four?
Rhodey: Youre requesting that I read specific selections from my report, Senator?
Stern: Yes, sir.
Rhodey: It was my understanding that I was going to be testifying in a much more comprehensive and detailed manner.
Stern: I understand. A lot of things have changed today. So if you could just read
Rhodey: You do understand that reading a single paragraph out of context does not reflect the summery of my final
Stern: Just read it, Colonel. I do. Thank you.
Rhodey: Very well. As he does not operate within any definable branch of government, Iron Man presents a potential threat to the security of both the nation and to her interests. I did however, go on to summarise that the benefits of Iron Man far outweigh three liabilities and that it would be in our interest
Stern: Thats enough Colonel
Rhodey: to fold Mr Stark
Stern: Thats enough
Rhodey: into the existing chain of command, Senator.
Tony Stark: Im not a joiner, but Ill consider Secretary of Defence, if you ask nice.
[Laughs from crowd.]
Tony Stark: We can amend the hours a little bit.
Stern: Id like to go on and show, if I may, the imagery thats connected to your report.
Rhodey: I believe it is somewhat premature to reveal these images to the general public at this time.
Stern: With all due respect, Colonel, I understand. And if you could just narrate those for us, wed be very grateful. Lets have the images.
Rhodey: Intelligence suggests that the devices seen in these photos are, in fact, attempts at making manned copies of Mr Starks suit. This has been corroborated by our allies and local intelligence on the ground
[Tony is doing something on a Stark device]
Rhodey:  indicating that these suits are quite possibly, at this moment, operational.
Tony Stark: Hold on a second buddy. Let me see something here. [Sets up his device to connect with the screen showing the pictures.] Boy, Im good. I commandeered your screens. I need them. Time for a little transparency. Now, lets see whats really going on.
Stern: What is he doing?
Tony Stark: If you will direct your attention to said screens, I believe thats North Korea. [Video of a suit. It falls over and clearly doesnt work very well at all.]
Stern: Can you turn that off? Take it off. [Justin Hammer stands up]
Tony Stark: Iran.
[This suit can fly. For all of five seconds before crashing, judging by the smoke, probably on fire. Justin is by the screen, trying to find the off switch.]
Tony Stark: No grave threat here. Is that Justin Hammer? How did Hammer get in the game?
[Yep, its a video of Justin Hammer. With a suit. Again that really doesnt work.]
Tony Stark: Justin, youre on TV. Focus up.
TV Justin: Okay, give me a left twist. Lefts good. Turn to the right. Oh, shit. Oh, shit.
[Language Justin]
Tony Stark: [Just as not-TV Justin finds the plug and unplugs the screen] Wow. Yeah, Id say most countries, five, ten years away. Hammer Industries, twenty.
Justin: Id like to point out that that test pilot survived.
Stern: I think were done is the point that hes making. I dont think theres any reason
Tony Stark: The point is, youre welcome, I guess
Stern: For what?
Tony Stark: Because Im your nuclear deterrent. Its working. Were safe. America is secure. You want my property? You cant have it. But I did you a big favour.
[Stands up and turns around to face the crowd]
Tony Stark: Ive successfully privatised world peace.
[Both hands make peace signs and everyone stands up, all talking at once]
Tony Stark: What more do you want? For now! I tried to play ball with these ass-clowns.
Stern: [beep] you, Mr Stark. [beep] you, buddy. Were adjourned. Were adjourned for today.
Tony Stark: [puts on sunglasses. Rhodeys still sitting down and has the same look on his face as Pepper did. Basically, theyre both tired of Tony not taking serious things seriously] Okay.
Stern: Youve been a delight.
[Kind of scene change. Its now on a television on a Russian news channel with Russian dubbing. Because its a film where the selected language is English, we can still here the English clearer than the Russian. Were back to Ivan.]
Tony (on TV): My bond is with the people. And I will serve this great nation at the pleasure of myself. If theres one thing Ive proven its that you can count on me to pleasure myself.
[Ivan is still working. Theres things going blue. It works. Its not a full suit, but it does now look like he has whips made of lightning. Scene change. Tonys house. Hes in his workshop. Pans in from across the ocean]
MALIBU, CALIFORNIA
Tony Stark: Wake up, Daddys home.
Jarvis (V.O., A.I): Welcome home, sir. Congratulations on the opening ceremonies. They were such a success, as was your Senate hearing. And may I say how refreshing it is to finally see you in a video with your clothing on, sir.
[One of the robots is trying to make a smoothie. Without a blender lid]
Tony Stark: You!
[You knocks over the blender. Well, he tried.]
Tony Stark: I swear to God Ill dismantle you. Ill soak your motherboard. Ill turn you into a wine rack.
[You looks down, sad.]
Tony Stark: How many ounce a day of this gobbledegook am I supposed to drink?
Jarvis: We are up to 80 ounces a day to counteract the symptoms, sir.
[Tony downs green liquid]
Tony Stark: Check palladium levels.
[Using the same machine as before]
Jarvis: Blood toxicity, 24%. It appears that the continued use of the Iron Man suit is accelerating your condition. Another core has been depleted.
Tony Stark: [Takes Arc Reactor out of chest. The core pops out, rusted and slightly smoking.] God, theyre running out quick.
Jarvis: I have run simulations on every known element, and none can serve as a viable replacement for the palladium core.
[Tony inputs a new core. Its silver, giving a judgment of just how badly damaged the other one was. Replaces Arc Reactor in chest.]
Jarvis: You are running out of both time and options. Unfortunately, the device thats keeping you alive is also killing you.
[Which we can see from the image of Tonys chest on the computer screen. Theres blue lines all around the Arc Reactor. Camera angle shifts to focus on his actual chest.]
Jarvis: Miss Potts is approaching. I recommend that you inform her
Tony Stark: Mute.
[Shirt back down, computers switched to screen saver, Pepper inputs a code and opens the door]
Pepper: Is this a joke? What are you thinking?
Tony Stark: What?
Pepper: What are you thinking?
Tony Stark: Hey, Im thinking Im busy. And youre angry about something. Do you have the sniffles? I dont want to get sick.
Pepper: Did you just donate
Tony Stark: Keep your business.
[Both walking around the room]
Pepper: our entire modern art collection to the
Tony Stark: Boy Scouts of America.
Pepper: Boy Scouts of America?
Tony Stark: Yes. It is a worthwhile organisation. I didnt physically check the crates but, basically, yes. And its not our collection, its my collection. No offence.
Pepper: No, you know what? I think Im actually entitled to say our collection considering the time that I put in, over 10 years, curating that.
Tony Stark: It was a tax write-off. I needed that.
Pepper: You know, theres only about 8,011 things that I really need to talk to you about.
Tony Stark: [to another robot] Dummy. Hey, stop spacing out. The Bridgeports already machining that part.
Pepper: The Expo is a gigantic waste of time.
Tony Stark: I need you to wear a surgical mask until youre feeling better. Is that okay?
Pepper: Thats rude.
Tony Stark: Theres nothing more important to me than the Expo. Its my primary point of concern. I dont know why youre
Pepper: The Expo is your ego gone crazy.
Tony Stark: [Picking up a painting. Of Iron Man] Wow. Look at that. Thats modern art. Thats going up.
Pepper: Youve got to be kidding.
Tony Stark: Im gonna put this up right now. This is vital.
Pepper: Stark is in complete disarray. You understand that?
Tony Stark: No. Our stocks have never been higher.
Pepper: Yes, from a managerial standpoint.
Tony Stark: You are Well, ifs messy then lets double back.
Pepper: Let me give you an example.
Tony Stark: Lets move onto another subject.
Pepper: No, no, no, no. You are not taking down the Barnett Newman and hanging that up.
Tony Stark: Im not taking it down. Im just replacing it with this.
[Tony is now stood on a desk about to take down the Barnett Newman to put the Iron Man picture up].
Tony Stark: Lets see what I can get going on here.
Pepper: Okay, fine. My point is, we have already awarded contracts to the wind farm people.
Tony Stark: Yeah. Dont say wind farm. Im already feeling gassy.
Pepper: And to the plastic plantation tree, which was your idea by the way. Those people are on payroll
Tony Stark: Everything was my idea.
Pepper: and you wont make a decision.
Tony Stark: I dont care about the liberal agenda any more. Its boring. Boring. Im giving you a boring alert. [Jumps off desk] You do it.
Pepper: I do what?
Tony Stark: Excellent idea. I just figured this out. You run the company.
Pepper: Yeah, Im trying to run the company.
Tony Stark: Pepper, I need you to run the company. Well, stop trying to do it and do it.
Pepper: You will not give me the information
Tony Stark: Im not asking you to try
Pepper: in order to
Tony Stark: Im asking you to physically do it. I need you to do it.
Pepper: I am trying to do it.
Tony Stark: Pepper, youre not listening to me!
Pepper: No, you are not listening to me.
Tony Stark: Im trying to make you CEO. Why wont you let me?
Pepper: Have you been drinking?
Tony Stark: Chlorophyll. I hereby irrevocably appoint you chairman and CEO of Stark Industries effective immediately. Yeah, done deal. Okay? Ive actually given this a fair amount of thought, believe it or not. [One of the robots brings him a tray which a bottle and glasses on it] Doing a bit of headhunting, so to speak, trying to figure out who a worthy successor would be. And then I realised its you. Its always been you. [Pours champagne. Pepper sits down, shocked and confused]. I thought thered be a legal issue, but actually Im capable of appointing my successor. My successor being you. [Hands her a glass. She doesnt take it.] Congratulations? Take it, just take it.
Pepper: I dont know what to think.
Tony Stark: Dont think, drink. There you go. [They tap glasses and drink]
[Were back in Russia. A man hands Ivan a letter down a twitten, out of sight. It contains a fake passport and a ticket. Another scene change. Tony and Happy are boxing. Pepper walks in.]
Pepper: The notarys here! Can you please come sign the transfer paperwork?
Tony Stark: Im on happy time. [Tony hits Happy in the face with his elbow] Sorry.
Happy: What the hell was that?
Tony Stark: Its called mixed martial arts. Its been around for three weeks.
Happy: Its called dirty boxing, theres nothing new about it
Tony Stark: All right, put them up. Come on. [The Notary walks in. Both Happy and Tonys attention shifts to her]
Pepper: I promise this is the only time I will ask you to sign over your company.
Notary: I need you to initial each box.
Happy: [Taps Tony on the back of the head with a light punch, not enough to hurt him] Lesson one. Never take your eye off [Tony kicks him and he goes crashing into the corner of the ring. Camera angle shifts to Pepper and the Notary and clangs are heard.]
Tony Stark: Thats it. Im done. Whats your name, lady?
Notary: Rushman. Natalie Rushman [So we shall now refer to the Notary as Natalie]
Tony Stark: Front and centre. Come into the church.
Pepper: No. Youre seriously not gonna ask
Tony Stark: If it pleases the court, which it does.
Natalie: [To Pepper] Its no problem.
Pepper: [To Natalie] Im sorry. Hes very eccentric.
[Natalie enters ring. Tony swigs down more green liquid out of a bottle]
Tony Stark: Can you give her a lesson?
Happy: No problem.
Tony Stark: [Steps out of ring and towards Pepper] Pepper.
Pepper: What?
Tony Stark: [Sitting down next to Pepper] Who is she?
Pepper: She is from legal. And she is potentially a very expensive sexual harassment lawsuit if you keep ogling her like that.
Tony Stark: I need a new assistant, boss.
Pepper: Yes, and Ive got three excellent potential candidates. Theyre lined up and ready to meet you.
Tony Stark: I dont have time to meet. I need someone now. I feel like its her.
Pepper: No, its not.
Happy: You ever boxed before?
Natalie: I have, yes.
Happy: What, like, the Tae Bo? Booty Boot Camp? Crunch? Something like that? [Natalies face shows brief annoyance at his statement before Tony distracts her]
Tony Stark: How do I spell your name, Natalie?
Natalie: R-U-S-H-M-A-N.
Pepper: What, are you gonna google her now?
Tony Stark: I thought I was ogling her. [Brings up Natalies file on table which doubles up as a computer. He has computers on everything.] Wow. Very, very impressive individual.
Pepper: Youre so predictable, you know that?
Tony Stark: Shes fluent in French, Italian, Russian, Latin. Who speaks Latin?
Pepper: No one speaks Latin.
Tony Stark: No one speaks Latin
Pepper: Its a dead language. You can read Latin or you can write Latin, but you cant speak Latin.
Tony Stark: Did you model in Tokyo? Cause she modelled in Tokyo.
Pepper: Well
Tony Stark: I need her. Shes got everything that I need. [Camera is now on Natalie and Happy, Natalie looking over, hearing what Tony is saying]
Happy: Rule number one, never take your eyes off your opponent. [He goes to take a swing, she grabs his hand and flips him over, legs over his head.]
Pepper: Oh, my God! Happy.
Tony Stark: Thats what Im talking about.
Happy: I just slipped.
Tony Stark: You did?
Happy: [Who looks a little like hes in pain] Yeah.
Tony Stark: Looks like a TKO to me. [Rings the bell and Natalie leaves the ring]
Natalie: Just I need your impression.
Tony Stark: You have a quiet reserve. I dont know, you have an old soul.
Natalie: I meant your fingerprint.
Tony Stark: Right.
Pepper: So, how are we doing?
Tony Stark: Great. Just wrapping up here. Hey. Youre the boss.
Natalie: Will that be all, Mr Stark?
Tony Stark: No.
Pepper: Yes, that will be all, Ms Rushman. Thank you very much. [She leaves. Tony turns to Pepper]
Tony Stark: I want one.
Pepper: No.
[News report is heard. In French. Its about the Grand Prix.
Tony, Pepper and Happy are seen leaving a car and walking into a building. Happy is carrying a red suitcase]
Tony Stark: You know, its Europe. Whatever happens the next 20 minutes, just go with it.
Pepper: Go with it? Go with what?
Natalie: Mr Stark?
Tony Stark: Hey.
Natalie: Hello. How was your flight?
Tony Stark: It was excellent. Boy, its nice to see you.
Natalie: We have one photographer from the ACM, if you dont mind. Okay?
Pepper: When did this happen?
Tony Stark: What? You made me do it.
Pepper: I made you do what?
Tony Stark: You quit. Smile. Look, right there. Stop acting constipated. Dont flare your nostrils.
Pepper: You are so predictable.
Tony Stark: Thats the amazing thing.
Natalie: Right this way.
Tony Stark: You look fantastic.
Natalie: Why, thank you very much.
Tony Stark: But thats unprofessional. Whats on the docket?
Natalie: You have a 9:30 dinner.
Tony Stark: Perfect. Ill be there at 11:00.
Natalie: Absolutely.
Tony Stark: Is this us?
Natalie: It can be.
Tony Stark: Great. Make it us.
Natalie: Okay.
Pepper: Mr Musk. How are you?
Mr Musk: Hi, Pepper. Congratulations on the promotion.
Pepper: Thank you very much.
Tony Stark: Elon, hows it going. Those Merlin engines are fantastic.
Mr Musk: Thank you. Yeah, Ive got an idea for an electric jet.
Tony Stark: You do?
Mr Musk: Yeah.
Tony Stark: Then well make it work. [To Pepper as they walk] You want a massage?
Pepper: Oh, God. No. I dont want a massage.
Tony Stark: Ill have Natalie make an
Pepper: I dont want Natalie to do
Tony Stark: Dont want you tense. By the way, I didnt mean to spring this on you.
Pepper: Thank you very much.
Tony Stark: Green is not your best colour. [Justins head appears from behind someone]
Pepper: Oh, please.
Justin: Anthony. Is that you?
Tony Stark: [To Pepper] My least favourite person on Earth.
Justin: Hey, pal.
Tony Stark: Justin Hammer.
Justin: How you doing? Youre not the only rich guy here with a fancy car. You know Christine Everhart from Vanity Fair. You guys know each other? [She appears.]
Christine: Hi. Yes.
Pepper: Yes.
Tony Stark: Yes, roughly.
Pepper: We do.
Justin: BTW, big story. The new CEO of Stark Industries.
Christine: I know, I know.
Justin: Congratulations.
Christine: My editor will kill me if I dont grab a quote for our Powerful Women issue.
Pepper: Oh.
Christine: Can I?
Pepper: Sure.
Justin: Shes actually doing a big spread on me for Vanity Fair. I thought Id throw her a bone, you know. Right?
Pepper: Right. Well, she did quite a spread on Tony last year.
Tony Stark: And she wrote a story as well.
Pepper: It was very impressive.
Tony Stark: That was good.
Pepper: It was very well done.
Christine: Thank you.
Pepper: Im gonna go wash.
Tony Stark: Dont leave me.
Justin: Hey, buddy. How you doing?
Tony Stark: Im all right.
Justin: Looking gorgeous.
Tony Stark: Please, this is tough.
Christine: Can I ask you Is this the first time
Justin: [Posing for a camera while Tony replaces sunglasses and tries to escape] Fromage [French for cheese. That bit did have a subtitle] Say Brie.
Christine: that you guys have seen each other?
Tony Stark: God, thats so awful.
Christine: Listen, is it the first time youve seen each other since the Senate?
Tony Stark: Since he got his contract revoked
Justin: Actually, its on hold.
Tony Stark: when you were attempting toThats not what I heard. Whats the difference between hold and cancelled? The truth?
Christine: Yes, what is it?
Justin: No. The truth is Why dont we put that away? The truth is, Im actually hoping to present something at your Expo.
Tony Stark: Well, if you invent something that works, Ill make sure I get you a slot.
Natalie: Mr Stark?
Tony Stark: Yes?
Natalie: Your corner table is ready.
Justin: I actually have a slot this year. Yes, I do.
Tony Stark: Hammer needs a slot, Christine.
Justin: We kid, yeah. We kid. Were kidders.
[Tony is doing another test. It reads Blood toxicity 53%. Hes in a bathroom.]
Tony Stark: [In the mirror] Got any other bad ideas?
[And now hes in a racing suit, jumping over the barrier towards a car.]
Justin: [Still inside, talking to Christine.] Tony and I Tony I love Tony Stark. Tony loves me. Were not competitors. Him being out of the picture created tremendous opportunities for Hammer Industries, you know? Everything that Tony and I do
Tony (on TV behind Justin): Well, whats the use of having
Justin: is a healthy
Tony Stark: and owning a race car
Justin: competition.
Tony Stark: if you dont drive it?
Justin: Is he driving?
[Camera shift to Pepper sitting at her table, probably waiting for Tony. She notices the television.]
Pepper: Natalie. Natalie!
Natalie: Yes, Ms Potts?
Pepper: What do you know about this?
Natalie: This is the first that I have known of it.
Pepper: This, this cannot happen.
Natalie: Absolutely. I understand. How can I help you?
Pepper: Wheres Happy?
Natalie: Hes waiting outside.
Pepper: Okay, get him. I need Happy.
Natalie: Right away.
Justin: Tonys You know, he Were not competitive. You know what I mean?
Christine: Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, can you excuse me just one second?
Justin: Just read me what you wrote.
Christine: I will. I will, after.
Justin: Just read it back to me.
Christine: But I have to make one quick phone call.
Justin: Where are you going?
Christine: This is great.
Justin: Ive got some caviar coming.
Christine: This is great stuff. Ill be right back.
Someone in background: Look! Thats Stark.
[And engines revving, set, go! The race takes off. A man dressed in orange as pit crew walks beside the track. He looks familiar. Tonys surprisingly not bad at this race car driving. Orange man is on the track. Oh look, its Ivan. More French words. I got a Mon Dieu I think. The lightning whips strike a car. Pepper looks terrified. For Tony. Another Mon Dieu from the French commentator. Means My God by the way. Happy appears at the door and holds up the briefcase. Pepper goes with him to the car and gets in the back.]
Pepper: Go, go.
Happy: Hang on. [Crashes through a barrier onto the track heading the opposite way to the race cars. Tonys car gets hit and he goes flying, loosing the front. Ivan heads forward. Another car gets hit. Bit of fire. Dripping petrol. Never a good sign.]
Pepper: Give me the case.
Happy: Here, take it.
Pepper: Wheres the key?
Happy: Its in my pocket.
Pepper: Car!
[Ivan slices more of Tonys car, but hes gone. Tony comes up from behind him and whacks him around the head with a sheet of metal. Fighting. Tony is knocked on the floor. Sees dripping petrol. Ivan begins to swings the whips. Tony moves, hits petrol and the car bursts into flames. Happy appears, driving and runs Ivan into the fence. Tony is up the fence]
Tony Stark: Are you okay?
Happy: Yeah.
Tony Stark: Were you heading from me or him?
Happy: I was trying to scare him.
Tony Stark: Cause I cant tell!
Pepper: Are you out of your mind?
Tony Stark: Better security.
Pepper: Get in the car right now!
Tony Stark: I was attacked. We need better security.
Happy: Get in the car.
Tony Stark: Youre CEO. Better security measures. God, its embarrassing. [Ivans head moves. Tony opens the door] First vacation in two years. [And Ivan slices the door in half. Darn it Ivan, its a Rolls, be nicer to her]
Pepper: Oh my God! [Happy reverses a bit and runs into Ivan again.]
Happy: I got him!
Tony Stark: Hit him again. Hit him again. Football.
Happy: I got him.
Pepper: Take the case! Take it!
Tony Stark: Give him the case!
Pepper: Stop banging the car! [Out comes the airbag and Ivan slices the car in half. He continues to slice at the car]
Tony Stark: Calm down.
Pepper: God. God.
Tony Stark: Give me the case! Please! Come on! [Pepper throws the case, Tony stand on it and it turns into the Iron Man Suit! A fight begins. Which involves more damage to the car and damage to the Iron Man suit. Tony rips out the Arc Reactor, shutting off Ivans suit.]
Ivan: [Being taken away by the police] You You lose. You lose Stark. [Justin smiles.]
[Scene change. In a prison.]
Police officer [French]: On a vrifi ses empreintes et on na rien trouv, mme pas son nom. ([subtitled] We ran his prints. We got nothing back, not even a name.)
Tony [French]: O allons-nous ? ([subtitled:] Where are we going?)
Police Officer [French]: Par l. En fait on ne sait mme pas s'il parle. Il a pas dit un mot depuis quil est arriv, pas un son. ([subtitled:] Over there. Were not even sure he speaks English. He hasnt said a word since he got here.)
Tony [French]: Cinq minutes ([subtitled:] Five minutes.)
Police officer [French]: [opening door] (Tony [French]: Non, non sil vous plat tout ira bien). Five minutes. {Door is shut behind Tony.]
Tony Stark: Pretty decent tech. Cycles per second were a little low. You could have doubled up your rotations. You focused the repulsor energy through ionised plasma channels. Its effective. Not very efficient. But its a passable knock-off. I dont get it. A little fine tuning you could have made a solid pay check. You could have sold it to North Korea, China, Iran, or gone onto the black market. You look like you got friends in low places.
Ivan: You come from a family of thieves and butchers. And now, like all guilty men, you try to rewrite your own history. And you forget all the lives the Stark family has destroyed.
Tony Stark: Speaking of thieves, where did you get this design?
Ivan: My father. Anton Vanko.
Tony Stark: Well, I never heard of him.
Ivan: My father is the reason youre alive.
Tony Stark: The reason Im alive is cause you had a shot, you took it, you missed.
Ivan: Did I? If you can make God bleed, the people will cease to believe in him. And there will be blood in the water. And the sharks will come. The truth, all I have to do is sit here and watch as the world will consume you.
Tony Stark: Where will you be watching the world consume me from? Thats right. A prison cell. Ill send you a bar of soap. [He gets up to leave]
Ivan: Hey, Tony. Before you go, palladium in the chest, painful way to die. [Tony leaves the cell]
[Scene change. On Tonys private aeroplane. Stern is on the television]
Stern: Its just unbelievable. It proves that the genie is out of the bottle and this man has no idea what hes doing. He thinks of the Iron Man weapon as a toy. I was at a hearing where Mr Stark, in fact, was adamant that these suits cant exist anywhere else, dont exist anywhere else, never will exist anywhere else, at least for five to ten years, and here we are in Monaco realising, These suits exist now.
Tony Stark: Mute. He should be giving me a medal. Thats the truth.
Pepper: What is that?
Tony Stark: This is your in-flight meal.
Pepper: Did you just make that?
Tony Stark: Yeah. Where do you think Ive been for three hours?
Pepper: Tony, what are you not telling me?
Tony Stark: I dont want to go home. At all. Lets cancel my birthday party and Were in Europe. Lets go to Venice, Cipriani. Remember?
Pepper: Oh, yes.
Tony Stark: Its a great place to be healthy.
Pepper: I dont think this is the right time. Were in kind of a mess.
Tony Stark: Yeah, but maybe thats why its the best time. Cause then we can
Pepper: Well, I think as the CEO I need to show up.
Tony Stark: As CEO, you are entitled to a leave.
Pepper: A leave?
Tony Stark: A company retreat.
Pepper: A retreat? During a time like this?
Tony Stark: Just a ride. Well, Im just saying, to recharge our batteries and figure it all out.
Pepper: Not everybody runs on batteries Tony.
[Ivan is in a cell. A guard drops of food. Someones left a note about enjoying the potatoes. That would be easier if they were potatoes and not an explosive. A man enters, dressed like Ivan, down to the number. Ivan escapes. A guard notices that he is escaping and wants to stop him and says in French "H prisonnier! Arrtes toi! Que fais-tu?" and Ivan breaks his neck. More French shouting. There was defiantly an allez in there. Ivan gets knocked out. He awakens somewhere else]
Justin: Hey. There he is. There he is. What an absolute pleasure. Welcome. Oh goodness gracious. Can we get the handcuffs off my friend here? Forgive me, Im sorry. Im such a huge fan of yours. I didnt want to make a first impression like this. Hes not an animal. Come on. Hes a human being. Thank you.
Henchman [French]: Je te laisse pas avec lui. [no subs: I am not leaving him with you.]
Justin [French]: Laisse-nous. [no subs: Let us.]
Henchman[French]: Je te laisse pas il est ouf. [no subs: I am not leaving him, he is crazy.]
Justin: Oui, oui. Were fine. My name is Justin Hammer. Id like to do some business with you. Please sit. Dig in. What do we have today Jack?
Jack: We have some salmon carpaccio.
Justin: Salmon carpaccio. Anything you want here, we got it. I like my dessert first. I had this flown in from San Francisco. Its Italian though. Organic ice cream. I got a sweet tooth. Apparently you do too, for Tony Stark. What I saw you do to Tony Stark on that track, how you stepped up to him in front of God and everybody that was Wow. You spoke to me with what you did. And I know that you knew that Id be listening. This is why I couldnt bear to have you shipped off to God knows where. It would have been such a waste of talent. But if I might make a suggestion, you know, you dont just go and try to kill the guy. I think, if I may, you go after his legacy. Thats what you kill. You and me, we are a lot alike in a lot of ways. The only difference between you and I is that I have resources. I think, if I may, you need my resources. Someone behind you, a benefactor. Id like to be that guy.
Ivan [Russian]:   ,   .  ,     . [no subs in the movie; If I'm killed, don't wake me. It is better to die than to live in your world.]
Justin: Okay. Do you speak English? Because I can get a translator. I dont know. Have you been understanding everything Im saying?
Ivan: Very good, man.
Justin: Very good, man.
Ivan: Very good, man.
Justin: Hey!
Ivan: [clinking bottle with Justins glass] Hey.
Justin: Yes?
Ivan: I want my bird.
Justin: A bird? You want a bird?
Ivan: I want my bird.
Justin: I can get you a bird. I can get you ten birds.
Ivan: I want my bird.
Justin: Well, okay. Nothings impossible. I could Are we talking about Is this a bird back in Russia?
[Scene change. Pepper and Natalie are back in Malibu.]
Pepper: [on phone] Yes, but the fundamentals of the company are still very, very strong despite the events in Monaco.
Natalie: [also on phone. But a different phone] Yes, of course. [To Pepper] The AP wants a quote.
Pepper: [covers speaker] Dont tell them. Fax them
Rhodey: [entering] Where is he?
Natalie: He doesnt want to be disturbed.
Pepper: Hes downstairs.
News reader (on television): But what happened in Monaco?
Pepper: Yes, but.
News reader: But his continuing erratic behaviour may lead many people to ask themselves, Can this man still protect us?
Pepper: Iron Man never stopped protecting us. The events in Monaco proved that.
[Scene change. Tony is sitting in a car in his workshop looking at holograms.]
JARVIS: Query complete sir. Anton Vanko was a Soviet physicist who defected to the United States in 1963.However, he was accused of espionage and was deported in 1967. His son, Ivan, who is also a physicist, was convicted of selling Soviet-era weapons grade plutonium to Pakistan, and served 15 years in Kopeisk prison. No further records exist. [Rhodey enters]
Rhodey: Tony, you gotta get upstairs and get on top of this situation right now. Listen. Ive been on the phone with the National Guard all day, trying to talk them out of rolling tanks up the PCH, knocking down your front door and taking these. Theyre gonna take your suits, Tony, okay? Theyre sick of the games. You said nobody else would possess this technology for 20 years. Well, guess what? Somebody else had it yesterday. Its not theoretical anymore. Are you listening to me? Are you okay?
Tony Stark: Lets go. [Gets out the car. And falls.]
Rhodey: Hey, man. Hey, hey! You all right?
Tony Stark: Yeah, I should get to my desk. [Rhodey supports him] See that cigar box?
Rhodey: Yeah.
Tony Stark: Its palladium.
Rhodey: [Tony removes Arc Reactor] Is that supposed to be smoking?
Tony Stark: If you must know, its neutron damage. Its from the reactor wall.
Rhodey: You had this in your body? And how about the high-tech crossword puzzle on your neck?
Tony Stark: Road rash. Thank you. [Replaces Arc Reactor and starts drinking green liquid again.] What are you looking at?
Rhodey: Im looking at you. You wanna do this whole lone gunslinger act and its unnecessary. You dont have to do this alone.
Tony Stark: You know, I wish I could believe that. I really do. But youve gotta trust me. Contrary to popular belief, I know exactly what Im doing.
QUEENS, NEW YORK.
Justin: This is where we do it. This is my humble abode. You can work in absolute peace. Must be fun to be dead, right? No pressure. Here they are. Im very excited. Theyre combat-ready. I may have done a few miscalculations and rushed the prototype into production. Sue me, Im enthusiastic. Go ahead, take a look around. [Ivan puts on glasses and heads towards a computer] You dont wanna do that. Youll be able to access that as soon as we generate some encrypted pass codes. Can we generate some encrypted pass codes? Get some of those encrypted pass codes, Jack. Never mind, I Wow. Okay. Good stuff.
Ivan [Russian]:   !
Justin: Sorry?
Ivan: Software shit.
Justin: Well Youre good. You really blasted in past the firewall there. Let me show you where youre gonna be working primarily. Go ahead, take a look. Get a good look at that. Thats something, isnt it? You know, those are really just for show and tell. Theyre $125.7 million a pop, so Wait! [Ivan pulls off ones head] Oh gosh. Jesus Christ. Get somebody up here. Thats where the pilot goes. Im having a tough time finding volunteers. Ill take care of that, just leave it.
Ivan: What you want them do?
Justin: Well, long term, I want them to put me in the Pentagon for the next 25 years. I want to make Iron Man look like an antique. I wanna go to that Stark Expo, I wanna take a dump in Tony Starks front yard. You know what Im talking about?
Ivan: I can do that. No problem.
Justin: Yeah? Hey, fabulous! I love it. Hey, this is our guy. Didnt I tell you? I had a feeling.
[Tonys rash on his chest is getting worse. Natalie enters.]
Natalie: Do you know which watch youd like to wear tonight, Mr Stark?
Tony Stark: Ill give them a look. I should cancel the party.
Natalie: Probably.
Tony Stark: Yeah. Cause its
Natalie: Ill-timed.
Tony Stark: Right, sends the wrong message.
Natalie: Inappropriate. [Tony drinks a bit of his drink that Natalie hands him] Is that dirty enough for you?
Tony Stark: Gold face, brown hand. The Jaeger. Ill give that a look. Bring them over. [Natalie hands him the box of watches] Ill take that. Why dont you [She sits, smiles softly and starts helping him cover his bruise] I gotta say it. Its hard to get a read on you. Where are you from?
Natalie: Legal.
Tony Stark: Can I ask you a question, hypothetically? Bit odd. If this was your last birthday party you were ever gonna have, how would you celebrate it?
Natalie: Id do whatever I wanted to do with whoever I wanted to do it with. [She leaves Tony finishes his drink. Scene change. Hes now drunk, by a DJ, dancing in the suit. Cars pull up outside]
Person: Good evening
Person: Good evening
Rhodey: Yes, sir, I understand. No. No, sir, that will not be necessary. Ill handle it. Sir, I personally guarantee that within 24 hours, Iron Man will be back on watch. [Enters party] Hey Pepper.
Pepper: Im going to get some air.
Rhodey: Whats wrong?
Pepper: [Showing Rhodey Tony] I dont know what to do.
Rhodey: You gotta be kidding me. [Tony falls over, drunk] Thats it, Im making.
Pepper: No, no, no. Dont call anyone.
Rhodey: Pepper. This is ridiculous. I just stuck my neck out for this guy.
Pepper: I know. I know. I get it. Im gonna handle it, okay Just let me handle it.
Rhodey: Handle it. Or Im gonna have to.
Tony Stark: [To crowd] You know, the question I get asked most often is, Tony, how do you go to the bathroom in the suit? Just like that. [Cheering. Pepper walks up to him]
Pepper: Does this guy know how to throw a party or what?
Tony Stark: I love you.
Pepper: Unbelievable! Thank you so much. Tony, we all thank you so much for such a wonderful night. And were gonna say good night now, and thank you all for coming.
Tony Stark: No, no, no, we cant  Wait, wait, wait. We didnt have the cake. We didnt blow out the candles.
Pepper: Youre out of control, okay? Trust me on this, okay?
Tony Stark: Youre out of control gorgeous.
Pepper: Its time to go to bed. Its time.
Tony Stark: Give me another smooch
Pepper: Youre not going to be happy about this.
Tony Stark: Come on, you know you want to.
Pepper: You just peed in the suit.
Tony Stark: I know. It has a filtration system.
Pepper: Its not sexy.
Tony Stark: You could drink that water.
Pepper: Just send everybody home, okay? Its time to
Tony Stark: If you say so.
Pepper: Okay. Ill take this, you take that [exchanges microphone for bottle]
Tony Stark: Pepper Potts. Shes right. The partys over. Then again, the party was over for me, like, an hour and a half ago. The after-party starts in 15 minutes. And if anybody, Pepper, doesnt like it, theres the door. [accidently shoots it with the suit.] Yeah! [Girl throws bottle it the air] Hit! [Rhodey leaves as he shoots it] Pull! [Rhodey goes downstairs. Drunk girl is still throwing things for Tony to shoot. Rhodey gets into one of the suits. Another girl appears with a watermelon] I think she wants the Gallagher!
Rhodey: [In full suit] Im only gonna say this once. Get out. [Helmet slips down. Everybody leaves.] You dont deserve to wear one of these. Shut it down!
Tony Stark: [To DJ] Goldstein.
Goldstein: Yes, Mr Stark?
Tony Stark: Give me a phat beat to beat my buddys ass to. [Laughs. Another One Bites the Dust by Queen starts to play.]
Rhodey: [Grabbing hold on Tony from behind] I told you to shut it down. [Tony takes off backwards]
Tony Stark: Now, put that thing back where you found it before someone gets hurt. [Rhodey throws things at him] Really? [Tony hits him with a set of weights] Sorry, pal, but Iron Man doesnt have a sidekick.
Rhodey: [Hitting Tony with a pipe] Sidekick this. [Tony goes up throw the ceiling.] Had enough?
[Quick camera angle shift]
Pepper: Natalie!
Natalie: Miss Potts.
Pepper: Dont you Miss Potts me! Im on to you. You know what? Ever since you came here [Tony and Rhodey come crashing through the ceiling]
Happy: Pepper! [Runs in to get her out of the way] Get out of here. Get out of here now. [Natalie heads off somewhere.]
Tony Stark: You want it? Take it! [Beats Rhodey and turns to growl at crowd, who run off. Rhodey gets back up]
Rhodey: Put you hand down.
Tony Stark: You think you got what it takes to wear that suit?
Rhodey: We dont have to do this, Tony.
Tony Stark: You wanna be the War Machine, take your shot.
Rhodey: Put it down!
Tony Stark: You gonna take a shot?
Rhodey: Put it down!
Tony Stark: No!
Rhodey: Drop it Tony!
Tony Stark: Take it! [Their blasts meet and there goes Tonys house. Both of them are knocked backwards. Tony looks around and sees Rhodey take off in the suit.]
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE
MOJAVE, CA
Rhodey: Edwards Tower, this is Lieutenant Colonel James Rhodes, inbound from three miles east at 5,000 feet [Rhodey lands in suit.]
Major Allen: Colonel.
Rhodey: Major.
Major Allen: Wow.
Rhodey: Yeah. Lets take it inside.
Major Allen: Clear the area.
[Scene change. Tony is sitting inside a doughnut, eating a doughnut. Pans out to see Nick Fury looking up at him.]
Nick Fury: Sir! Im gonna have to ask you to exit the doughnut.
Tony Stark: [Now inside sitting at a table with Fury] I told you I dont wanna join your super-secret boy band.
Fury: No, no, no. See, I remember, you do everything yourself. Hows that working out for you?
Tony Stark: Its Its Its Im sorry. I dont wanna get off on the wrong foot. Do I look at the patch or the eye? Honestly Im a bit hung over. Im not sure if youre real of if Im having
Fury: I am very real. Im the realest person youre ever gonna meet.
Tony Stark: Just my luck. Wheres the staff here?
Fury: Thats not looking so good.
Tony Stark: Ive been worse. [A woman walks over. Camera angle is such that you cant see her face.]
SHIELD agent: Weve secured the perimeter but I dont think we should hold it for too much longer.
Tony Stark: [Looks over top of glasses. Sees Natalie.] Youre fired.
Natalie: Thats not up to you. [Sits down next to Fury]
Fury: Tony, I want you to meet Agent Romanoff.
Tony Stark: Hi.
Natalie/Agent Romanoff: Im a SHIELD shadow. Once we knew you were ill, I was tasked to you by Director Fury.
Tony Stark: I suggest you apologise.
Fury: Youve been very busy. You made your girl your CEO, youre giving away all your stuff. You let your friend fly away with your suit. Now, if I didnt know better
Tony Stark: You dont know better. I didnt give it to him. He took it.
Fury: Whoa, whoa, whoa. He took it? Youre Iron Man and he just took it? The little brother walked in there, kicked your ass and took your suit? [Turns to Agent Romanoff] Is that possible?
Agent Romanoff: Well, according to Mr Starks database security guidelines, there are redundancies to prevent unauthorised usage.
Tony Stark: What do you want from me?
Fury: What do we want from you? What do you want from me? [Agent Romanoff leaves] You have become a problem, a problem I have to deal with. Contrary to your belief, you are not the centre of my universe. I have bigger problems than you in the southwest region to deal with. [Romanoff returns with an injection] Hit him.
Tony Stark: Oh, God, are gonna steal my kidney and sell it? [Rash goes down] Could you please not do anything awful for five seconds? What did she just do to me?
Fury: What did we just do for you? Thats lithium dioxide. Its gonna take the edge off. Were trying to get you back to work.
Tony Stark: Give me a couple of boxes of that. Ill be right as rain.
Agent Romanoff: Its not a cure, it just abates the symptoms.
Fury: Doesnt look like its gonna be an easy fix.
Tony Stark: Trust me, I know. Im good at this stuff. Ive been looking for a suitable replacement for palladium. Ive tried every combination, every permutation of every known element.
Fury: Well, Im here to tell you, you havent tried them all.
[Scene change. Hammer Industries]
Justin: Hey, hey, het. Special delivery. Candygram. [Ivan climbs down from where he was working] I brought you something. Oh yeah. [Removes cloth] We got you the bird, pal.
Ivan: This is not my bird.
Justin: What do you mean? Thats the bird. This is the bird. Yeah, pulled a lot of strings to get this bird. This is a great bird.
Jack: Its a beautiful bird.
Justin: We got this bird all the way from Russia.
Ivan: Hey, man, this is not my bird.
Justin: Well, listen, even if its not the bird, I mean, this is a gorgeous bird. I mean, you know, look, dont get so attached to things. Learn to let go. Wait a minute. Jack, what is that? Is that Thats not a helmet. What is that? [Walks up to suit] Ivan Whats this? Jack. Is that a helmet? It doesnt look like a helmet to me. How How are you supposed to get a head in there? Jack, could you put your head in there?
Jack: No.
Justin: Try to put your head in there. Go ahead. Try to put your head in there. [Jack put it on his head] See, Ivan? He cant put his head in there. Thats Thats not a helmet. Its a head. I need to put a guy in there. I need to fit a person in that suit. You understand?
Ivan: Drone better.
Justin: What? Drone better? Why is drone better? Why is drone better?
Ivan: People make problem. Trust me. Drone better.
Justin: Ivan, you know, I like you. I got you the bird. You said, No problem. Thats what you said to me. You said, No problem. Now I need suits. The government wants suits. Like Iron Man. You understand? Thats what the people want. Thats whats gonna make them happy.
Ivan: Hey, man. Dont get too attached to things. Learn to let go.
Justin: These drones better steal the show, Ivan. You understand? Better rock my world, Ivan.
[Scene change. Air base]
General: Unbelievable. This ought to get the Senate off my ass. Its functional?
Rhodey: Fully mission-capable.
General: Good. Get Hammer down here to weaponise it.
Rhodey: Sir?
General: Justin Hammers making a weapons presentation at the Expo. Wed like this to introduce it.
Rhodey: Sir, I dont believe that the Expo
General: Colonel, the world needs to see this fast. Weve got to make this happen.
Rhodey: Yes, General, but
General: Its also an order.
Rhodey: Yes sir.
General: Good work, Colonel. Youve made your country proud.
Rhodey: Thank you sir.
[Scene change. Tonys house. Its a bit broken. He is sitting with Nick Fury.]
Fury: That thing in your chest is based on unfinished technology.
Tony Stark: No, it was finished. It has never been particularly effective until I miniaturised it and put it in my
Fury: No. Howard said the arc reactor was the stepping stone to something greater. He was about to kick off an energy race that was gonna dwarf the arms race. He was on to something big, something so big that it was gonna make the nuclear reactor look like a triple-A battery.
Tony Stark: Just him, or Anton Vanko in on this too?
Fury: Anton Vanko is the other side of that coin. Anton saw it as a way to get rich. When your father found out, he had him deported. When the Russians found out he couldnt deliver they shipped his ass off to Siberia and he spent the next 20 years in a vodka-fuelled rage. Not quite the environment you want to raise a kid in, the son you had the misfortune of crossing paths with in Monaco.
Tony Stark: You told me I hadnt tried everything. What do you mean I havent tried everything? What havent I tried?
Fury: He said that you were the only person with the means and knowledge to finish what he started.
Tony Stark: He said that?
Fury: Are you that guy? Are you? Cause if you are, then you can solve the riddle of your heart.
Tony Stark: I dont know where you get your information, but he wasnt my biggest fan.
Fury: What do you remember about your dad?
Tony Stark: He was cold, he was calculating. He never told me he loved me. He never even told me he liked me, so its a little tough for me to digest when youre telling me he said the whole future was riding on me and hes passing it down. I dont get that. Youre talking about a guy whos happiest day was when he shipped me off to boarding school.
Fury: Thats not true.
Tony Stark: Well, then, clearly you knew my dad better than I did.
Fury: As a matter of fact, I did. He was one of the founding members of SHIELD.
Tony Stark: What?
Fury: I got a two oclock
Tony Stark: Wait, wait, wait, wait. Whats this?
Fury: Okay, youre good, right?
Tony Stark: No, Im not good.
Fury: You got this? Right? Right?
Tony Stark: Got what? I dont even know what Im supposed to get.
Fury: Natasha will remain a floater at Stark with her cover intact. You remember Agent Coulson, right?
Tony Stark: Yeah.
Fury: And Tony, remember, I got my eye on you. [Fury leaves]
Natalie/Agent Romanoff/Natasha (Well stick with Natasha from now on): Weve disabled all communications. No contact with the outside world. Good luck. [She leaves]
Tony Stark: [Turning to Agent Coulson] Please. First thing, I need a little bodywork. Ill put in a little time at the lab. If we could send one of your goon squad down to The Coffee Bean, Cross Creek, for a Starbucks run, or something like that, thatd be nice.
Agent Coulson: Im not here for that. Ive been authorised by Director Fury to use any means necessary to keep you on premises. If you attempt to leave or play any games, I will tase you and watch Supernanny while you drool into the carpet. Okay?
Tony Stark: I think I got it, yeah.
Agent Coulson: Enjoy your evenings entertainment. [Leaves. Tony looks at the box that has been left for him.]
[Scene change. Air base. Dismantling the suit]
Major Allen: Think this is the power source?
Rhodey: Major, this is not a scientific exercise. Lets just focus on arming it, all right?
Major Allen: Yes, sir.
Justin: [Entering. Sucking on a red lollipop.] Oh, yes! Oh, yes, yes, yes. Is it my birthday? You got it. What did you do? What did you do? Is this what I think it is?
Rhodey: Yes it is. Hammer, I want to know what youre gonna do for us.
Justin: What am I going to do for you? Well, the first thing Im gonna do for you is Im gonna upgrade your software. And then, second, I think I should
Rhodey: Thats not what Im talking about. Im talking about firepower.
Justin: Well, youre talking to the right guy. [Bites lollipop. Time jump. Kind of. He now has weapons to show to Rhodey.] Claridge Hi-Tec, semi-automatic, 9mm pistol. Too downtown? I agree. M24 shotgun, pump action. Five-round magazine. You know what? Youre not a hunter. What am I talking about? Im getting rid of it. This is the FN-2000 from Belgium. They do make something better than waffles. Its beautiful, But I can tell this isnt disco enough for you, so Im gonna put it right here. Youre looking at a Milkor 40mm grenade launcher. Tear gas, smoke. Hippie control. Youre tough. Let me tell you something. Size does matter. Dont let anyone tell you different. This is an M134 7.62 Minigun. Six invidual barrels. The torso taker, powder maker. Our boys in uniform call in Uncle Gazpacho or Puff the Magic Dragon. Okay. These are the Cubans, baby. This is the Cohibas, the Montecristos. This is a kinetic-kill, side-winder vehicle with a secondary cyclotrimethlyenetrinitamine RDX burst. Its capable of busting the bunker under the bunker you just busted. If it were any smarter, it would write a book. A book that would make Ulysses look like it was written in crayon. It would read it to you. This is my Eiffel Tower. This is my Rachmaninoffs Third. My Pieta. Its completely elegant. Its bafflingly beautiful. And its capable of reducing the population of any standing structure to zero. I call it the Ex-Wife. Thats the best I got. Are we gonna do this? Give me something here. Youre like a sphinx. I cant read you.
Rhodey: I think Ill take it.
Justin: Which one?
Rhodey: All of it.
Justin: All of it.
[Scene change. Tony is looking through the box. Blue prints for the arc reactor. Newspaper articles. Video reels.]
Howard (on video): Everything is achievable through technology. Better living, robust heath, [Tony is flicking through a notebook as the video plays] and for the first time in human history, the possibility of world peace. Im Howard Stark, and everything youll need for the future can be found right here. City of the Future? City of Tomorrow? City of Im Howard Stark and everything youll need in the future can be found right here. So, from all of us at Stark Industries, I would like to personally Tony, what are you doing back there? What is that? [Little Tony has picked one of the buildings up off the model.] Put that back. Put it back where you got it from. Wheres your mother? Maria? Go on. Go, go, go, go. [A man takes little Tony off, presumably to where his mother is]
Man (out of sight): All right, I think we got
Howard: Ill Ill Ill come in and [Video changes]
Man: Are you waiting on me? [Howard drinks. Looks like whiskey. Video changes again]
Howard: So, from all of us at Stark Industries, Id like to personally show you my ass. Id like to I cant This is I cant We have this, dont we? This is a ridiculous way Everything [Tony reaches end of notebook. Blank pages. Probably ones his father never got to fill in as he died] is achievable through technology. [Tony throws the book to one side and drinks] Tony. Youre too young to understand this right now, so I thought I would put it on film for you. I built this for you. And someday youll realise that it represents a whole lot more than just peoples inventions. It represents my lifes work. This is the key to the future. Im limited by the technology of my time, but one day youll figure this out. And when you do, you will change the world. What is and always will be my greatest creation is you. [Tony looks like hes about to cry as the film ends.
Scene change. Hes driving down a road in car number plate Stark11
He stops to but some strawberries.]
Tony [Spanish]: How much?
Strawberry man: $6. Six.
Tony Stark: I dont have any dough. Here. [Takes off watch]
Strawberry man: No, sir, thats too much.
Tony Stark: No, its fine. Take that. Its fine
Strawberry man: No, seor.
Tony Stark: Take it. Take it. I dont like people handing me things. If you just drop that there, thatd be great.
Strawberry man: Are you Iron Man?
Tony Stark: Sometimes.
Strawberry man: [As Tony drives off] We believe in you!
[Now in Peppers office]
Pepper: It was an illegal seizure of trademark property.
PA: Miss Potts?
Tony Stark: Relax.
PA: Mr Stark
Tony Stark: Is here.
PA: He refuses
Tony Stark: I dont. Its fine. Ill just be a second.
Pepper (on phone): Listen, its our position that Stark has and continues to maintain propriety ownership of the Mark II platform.
News reporter (on telly): When Mr Stark announced he was indeed Iron Man, he was making a promise to America.
Pepper: No, the suit belongs to us.
News reporter: We trusted that he would look out for us.
Pepper: Yeah, but youre not
News reporter: He obviously did not.
Pepper: Burt
News reporter: And now we learn that his secretary
Pepper: Yes, it does.
News reporter: a woman named Virginia Pepper Potts, has been appointed as CEO of Stark Industries. What are her qualifications?
Pepper: No.
News reporter: Miss Potts has done nothing to manage this terrible
Tony Stark: Mute.
Pepper: No Burt Burt Burt, listen to me. Dont tell me that we have the best patent lawyers in the country and then not let me pursue this.
Tony Stark: [Looking at boxes and things in the corner.] Ill get this stuff out of here.
Pepper: Well, then, tell the President to sign an order. Well talk about it at the Expo. [Tony pulls back a sheet and finds the same model as that that was in the video with his father] Hammers giving some presentation tomorrow evening. Will Tony Stark be there?
Tony Stark: [Pulling up a chair] Will I?
Pepper: No, he will not. Bye.
Tony Stark: I would like to be. Got a minute?
Pepper: No.
Tony Stark: Come on, you just got off the phone. Youre fine. 30 seconds.
Pepper: Twenty-nine Twenty-eight.
Tony Stark: I was just driving over here, and I thought I was coming to basically apologise, but Im not.
Pepper: You didnt come here to apologise?
Tony Stark: Look, that goes without saying, and Im working on that. But I havent been entirely upfront with you, and I just want to try to make good. Can I move this? This is crazy. Its like a Ferris wheel, going. Im trying to get some
Pepper: No.
Tony Stark: Do you know how short life is? And if I never got to express And by the way, this is somewhat revelatory to me. And I dont care I mean, I care. It would be nice. Im not expecting you to Look, heres what Im trying to say. Im just gonna say it.
Pepper: Let me stop you right here, okay? Because if you say I one more time, Im gonna actually hurl something at your head, I think. I am trying to run a company. Do you have any idea what that entails?
Tony Stark: Yes.
Pepper: People are relying on you to be Iron Man and youve disappeared, and all Im doing is putting out your fires and taking the heat of it. I am trying to do the job that you were meant to do. Did you bring me strawberries? Did you know that theres only one thing on Earth that Im allergic to?
Tony Stark: Allergic to strawberries. This is progress Pepper. I knew there was a correlation between you and this.
Pepper: I need you
Tony Stark: I need you too.
Pepper: to leave now
Tony Stark: Thats what Im trying to
Natasha: [Entering as Natalie in front of Happy] Ms Potts?
Pepper: Hi, come on in.
Natasha: Wheels up in 25 minutes.
Pepper: Thank you.
Happy: Anything else, boss?
Tony Stark: Im good, Hap.
Pepper: No, Ill be just another minute.
Tony Stark: I lost both the kids in the divorce. [Tony looks over to Happy, who shakes his head.] Are you blending in well here, Natalie? Here are Stark Enterprises? Your name is Natalie, isnt it? I thought you two didnt get along?
Pepper: No. Thats not so.
Tony Stark: Its just me you dont care for. No? Nothing?
Pepper: Actually, while youre here maybe you and Natalie could discuss the matter of the personal belongings.
Natasha: Absolutely. [Pepper and Happy leave] Im surprised you can keep your mouth shut.
Tony Stark: Boy, youre good. You are mind-blowingly duplicitous. How do you do it? You just tear things Youre a triple imposter. Ive never seen anything like you. Is there anything real about you? Do you even speak Latin?
Natasha: [Latin]
Tony Stark: Which means? Wait. What? What did you just say?
Natasha: It means you can either drive yourself home or I can have you collected. [She leaves.]
Tony Stark: Youre good. [Piles things up under desk spinny thing and throws strawberries in the bin. Goes back to the model and looks at it through one eye.
Scene change. Driving it home, fading into workshop]
Tony Stark: Jarvis, could you kindly Vac-U-Form a digital wire frame? I need a manipulatable projection.
Jarvis: 1974 Stark Expo model scan complete, sir.
Tony Stark: [Lifting the blue projection away from the model] How many buildings are there?
Jarvis: Am I to include the Belgium waffle stands?
Tony Stark: That was rhetorical. Just show me. [Clicks his fingers and the model begins to spin and lifts upright] What does that look like to you Jarvis? Not unlike an atom. In which case the nucleus would be here. Highlight the unisphere. Lose the footpaths. Get rid of them.
Jarvis: What is it youre trying to achieve, sir?
Tony Stark: Im discovering Correction. Im rediscovering a new element, I believe. Lose the landscaping, the shrubbery, the trees. [Tony flicks things away] Parking lots, exits, entrances. Structure the protons and the neutrons using the pavilions as a framework. Dad. [The model now resembles a nucleus and Tony expands it.] Dead for almost 20 years, and still taking me to school. [Tony snaps down so the model fits in his hand]
Jarvis: The proposed element should serve as a viable replacement for palladium.
Tony Stark: Thank Dad.
Jarvis: Unfortunately, it is impossible to synthesise.
Tony Stark: Get ready for a major remodel, fellas. Were back in hardware mode.
[Smashing walls with sledge hammers, drilling holes in the floor, fiddling with wires, putting together pipes.
Agent Coulson enters]
Agent Coulson: I heard you broke the perimeter.
Tony Stark: Yeah. That was, like, three years ago. Where have you been?
Agent Coulson: I was doing some stuff.
Tony Stark: Yeah, well, me too and it worked. Hey, Im playing for the home team Coulson, you and all your Fabulous Furry Freak Brothers. Now, are you gonna let me work or break my balls?
Agent Coulson: [Pulls a familiar looking object out of a box] Whats this doing here?
Tony Stark: Thats it. Bring that to me.
Agent Coulson: You know what this is?
Tony Stark: [As Agent Coulson hands it to him] Its exactly what I need to make this work. Lift the coil. Go, go. Put your knees into it. There you go. And Drop it. Drop it. [The shield is now in position and the coil straight.] Perfectly level. Im busy. What do you want?
Agent Coulson: Nothing. Goodbye. Ive been reassigned. Director Fury wants me in New Mexico.
Tony Stark: Fantastic. Land of Enchantment.
Agent Coulson: So Im told.
Tony Stark: Secret stuff?
Agent Coulson: Something like that. Good luck.
Tony Stark: Bye. Thanks. [They shake hands]
Agent Coulson: We need you.
Tony Stark: Yeah, more than you know.
Agent Coulson: Not that much. [He leaves. Tony goes back to building.]
Jarvis: Initialising prismatic accelerator. [Tony turns a wheel on top] Approaching maximum power. [Using a wrench as a lever, the wheel is turned, but not before cutting holes in the wall. Eventually its concentrated on a triangle which begins to glow blue.]
Tony Stark: That was easy. [He removes the triangle using a pair of pliers]
Jarvis: Congratulations sir. You have created a new element. [Placed into arc reactor] Sir, the reactor has accepted the modified core. I will begin running diagnostics.
[Scene change. Ivan is also building an arc reactor]
Justin (on phone from golf course): Hey Ivan. I got Senator Stern here. Thought wed swing over and look at some of the drone designs.
Ivan: The drone is not going to be ready.
Justin: Not ready? What do you mean?
Ivan: I can make presentation, not demonstration.
Justin: What the hell is the difference?
Ivan: Presentation. No fly. No shoot.
Justin: Wait, wait, wait. Wait, wait, wait. What can you make them do? I mean, this is a weapons demonstration.
Ivan: I can make salute.
Justin: You can make salute? What do you mean make salute? What the hell does that mean Ivan? This is not what we agreed to, okay? You promised me suits and then you promised me drones. [Camera pans to show Ivan has remade his arc reactor whips]
Ivan: Hey, man, everything will be okay.
Justin: This is not what I wanted.
[Justin is back at Hammer Industries. Enters Ivans room with two men.]
Justin: Hey, there he is. Its the bird man. Now you like the bird. Is that right? Is that your bird? Im confused. You said it wasnt, but now it looks like youre the best of pals. You love that bird, dont you? You know what? Take the bird.
Ivan: [As man grabs bird] Hey!
Justin: Take his pillows too. Both of them. And his shoes. Take his shoes. I took your stuff. How does that make you feel? Do you feel bad? Good. Cause thats how I feel! We had a contract. I saved your life and you give me suits. That was our deal. And you did not deliver. I dont know if youre a genius or a fraud. I dont know what you are. Something really, really great fell into my lap. And if it hadnt, Id be at your mercy tonight. Now I have a piece of Stark tech that I pimped out myself. And now your overpriced paperweights and gonna look like a backdrop to my demonstration. Do you dig what Im getting at here?
Ivan: [Russian]    . [no subs in the movie;You talk too much.]
Justin: I dont know if you know this, but I dont speak Russian! Im gonna leave now. Im gonna go to the Expo. Maybe Ill even get laid. You see these guys? Theyre your babysitters. They are not to be trifled with. When I get back, were gonna renegotiate the terms of our agreement. And youre gonna make good on our arrangement because if you dont, youre gonna be exactly what you were when I found you, a dead man. You got that? Maybe you can watch me on TV. [Leaves]
[Tonys house]
Tony Stark: Dummy, You, can we clean up this mess? Youre killing me. You know I dont
Jarvis: Incoming call with a blocked number sir.
Tony Stark: My phone privilege is reinstated. Lovely. Coulson. Hows the Land of Enchantment?
Ivan: Hey, Tony, how you doing? I double cycle.
Tony Stark: You what?
Ivan: You told me double cycles more power. Good advice.
Tony Stark: You sound pretty sprightly for a dead guy.
Ivan: You too.
Tony Stark: [mutes his speaker] Trace him.
Jarvis: Sir.
Ivan: Now, the true history of Stark name will be written.
Tony Stark: Jarvis, where is he?
Jarvis: Accessing the Oracle grid. Eastern Seaboard.
Ivan: What your father did to my family over 40 years, I will do to you in 40 minutes.
Tony Stark: Sounds good. Lets get together and hash it out.
Jarvis: Tri-State area. Manhattan and outlying boroughs.
Ivan: I hope youre ready. [Call ends]
Jarvis: Call trace incomplete.
[Sees advert for Justins presentation. Picks up new arc reactor]
Jarvis: Sir
Tony Stark: You want to run some tests, run them. And assemble the suit while youre at it. Put it together now.
Jarvis: We are unclear as to the effects.
Tony Stark: I dont want to hear it Jarvis. [Reactor gains power] That tastes like coconut. And metal. Oh wow, yeah!
[Stark Expo. Natasha opens the door for Pepper to exit the car]
Happy: Ill keep the car down here, all right?
Pepper: Thank you Happy.
Announcer: Justin Hammer. His presentation will begin shortly in the main pavilion.
[Begins. Justin dances on to the stage]
Justin: Yeah. Thats what Im talking about. Thanks for coming. Ladies and gentlemen, for far too long, this country has had to place its brave men and women in harms way, but then the Iron Man arrived, and we thought the days of losing lives were behind us. Sadly, that technology was kept out of reach. Thats not fair. Thats not right. And its just too bad.
Pepper: Oh, Lord.
Justin: Regardless, it was an impressive innovation, one that grabbed the headlines the world over. Well, today, my friends, the press is faced with quite a difficult problem. They are about to run out of ink. [Two people run on to remove the podium] Get that out of here. Ladies and gentlemen, today I present to you the new face of the United States military. The Hammer drone. [Drones rise out of the stage as he calls names] Army! Navy! Air Force! Marines! Yeah! Yeah! Woo! Thats a hell of a lot better than some cheerleaders, let me tell you. But as revolutionary as this technology is, there will always be a need for man to be present in the theatre of war [Ivan is typing something] Ladies and gentlemen, today I am proud to present to you the very first prototype in the Variable Threat Response Battle Suit and its pilot, Air Force Lieutenant Colonel James Rhodes.
Pepper: What? [Rises and salutes.]
Justin: For America and its allies, Hammer Industries is reporting for [incoming Iron Man]
Tony Stark: We got trouble.
Rhodey: Tony, there are civilians present. Im here on orders. Lets not do this right now.
Tony Stark: Give them a wave.
Justin: Hey, all right. Yeah.
Tony Stark: All these people are in danger. We gotta get them out of here. You gotta trust me for the next five minutes.
Rhodey: Yeah, I tried that. I got tossed around your house, remember?
Tony Stark: Listen, I think hes working with Vanko.
Rhodey: Vankos alive?
Justin: Yeah. [Tony approaches him]
Tony Stark: What is he?
Justin: What?
Tony Stark: Wheres Vanko?
Justin: Who?
Tony Stark: Tell me.
Justin: What are you doing here man?
Rhodey: Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Tony Stark: [As a large gun takes aim] Is that you?
Rhodey: No, Im not doing that. Thats not me. I cant move. Im locked up. Im locked up! [Drones take aim] Get out of here. Go! This whole systems been compromised.
Tony Stark: [Takes off] Lets take it outside. [Drones and Rhodey fire at him. Rhodey takes off]
Rhodey: No, no!
Tony Stark: Jarvis, break in. I need to own him.
Jarvis: Yes sir.
Rhodey: Tony, Tony, Im locked on. I have target lock.
Tony Stark: On what?
Rhodey: On you. [Shooting at Tony] Tony, on your six!
Justin: [Running to a computer] Whats going on? Whats happening?
Technician: The softwares been overridden.
Justin: What? What do you mean its been overridden? What does that mean?
Technician: I think he slaved the drones.
Justin: Thats impossible. Call the guards.
Jack: All the phones are down sir.
Justin: Well, then call their Call their cells.
Jack: Their cell phones are not working either sir.
Technician: Hes locked us out of the mainframe.
Pepper: [Entering] Whos locked you out of the mainframe?
Justin: Please, please, go away. Go away. Ive got this handled.
Pepper: Have you now?
Justin: Yes, I do. In fact, if your guy hadnt showed up, this wouldnt be happening. So, please, now go away. Thank you [To technician] Listen, we got to get these bitches out of here. What?
Natasha: [Grabs Justin and holds him down on the desk] You tell me whos behind this. Whos behind this?
Justin: Ivan. Ivan Vanko.
Natasha: Where is he?
Justin: At my facility.
[Natasha lets go and leaves. Pepper dials a number on her phone]
Pepper: I need NYPD, please.
Justin: No, no, no!
Pepper: Command Central.
Justin: No, no, honey. Dont call the authorities.
Pepper: Okay. Right away. Right away. [To Justin] Step aside. Step aside. [To technician] Tell me everything you know. Go.
[Tony is still being chased by Rhodeys suit and the air force drones]
Tony Stark: How are we doing Jarvis?
Jarvis: Remote reboot unsuccessful.
[Other drones are now firing at the running crowds. Natasha leaves the building.]
Security guard: This way.
Happy: Nobodys answering the phone. Whats going on?
Natasha: Get in the car. Take me to Hammer Industries.
Happy: Im not taking you anywhere.
Natasha: Fine. You want me to drive?
Happy: No, Im driving. Get in the car.
[Lots of shooting drones and people screaming. The kid with the Iron Man helmet is targeted by a drone and holds his hand up. Tony lands behind him and shoots the drone with his hand repulsor]
Tony Stark: Nice work kid. [Takes off again]
Rhodey: You got multiples coming in on you.
Tony Stark: Lets get this away from the Expo.
[Inside car]
Natasha: Wen we arrive, I need you to watch the perimeter. [Shes getting undressed in the back of the car] Im gonna enter the facility and take down the target. Watch the road.
Happy: I got it. I got it.
[Tony and Rhodey. Tony sets off one car alarm, the drones set off the rest.
Ivan is still typing inside Hammer Industries]
Rhodey: Listen, listen. A pack just peeled off. Theyre headed back to the Expo.
Tony Stark: Got it.
Rhodey: In closing in on you. Ordnance coming in hot Tony. Watch it.
[Hammer Industries. Happy parks the car outside. More of less]
Natasha: Stay in the car.
Happy: Im not staying in the car.
Natasha: I said, stay in the car.
Happy: [As Natasha heads up the stairs to the front door] What are you wearing? Look, Im not letting you go in there alone.
Natasha: You want to help? Keep the car running.
Happy: [Opens the door as she unlocks it and runs in] Okay.
[Ivan gets a security breach message]
Hammer security guard: Hey, hey, hey. You cant come in here.
[Happy punches him and Natasha heads past.]
Second guard: Hold on. Hey!
[Natasha fights the other guards. Some using her SHIELD tech, some just kicking or punching them.
Back at Expo]
Technician: Each set of drone is communicating in its own unique language.
Pepper: Well, choose one and focus on that.
Justin: Have you tried Russian? Why dont you try Russian?
[Hammer Industries. Happy is still fighting the same guard.]
Announcement: Attention. We have intrusion on Grid W.
Security guard: We got it. Were on our way.
[And Natasha throws something. And takes on like five guards at once. She walks away, casually spraying one with pepper spray. All this while Happys fighting one guy. Happy wins.]
Happy: I got him! [Sees what Natasha has done
Ivan gets up.
Tony is trying to let the drones away]
Tony Stark: Rhodey, you still locked on?
Rhodey: Yeah.
Tony Stark: Drop your socks and grab your Crocs. Were about to get wet on this ride.
Rhodey: Wait, wait, wait!
[Tony leads the drones through the globe sculpture. Most explode hitting parts of it.
Natasha kicks open Ivans door, a gun in each hand. Happy is behind her. The room is empty.]
Natasha: Hes gone.
[Tony and Rhodey]
Tony Stark: Im sorry buddy. Had to thin out the herd. Whats your 20?
[Directly above him. Both crash into biodome
Natasha puts her guns on the table and starts typing.]
Happy: What are you doing?
Natasha: Im rebooting Rhodeys suit.
[Rhodey is on top of Tony, who is pushing the gun to keep it from shooting him]
Rhodey: Tony.
[Natasha gains access.
Rhodeys suit shuts down]
Natasha: Reboot complete [Image of Tony on screen] You got your best friend back.
Tony Stark: Thank you very much, Agent Romanoff.
Natasha: Well done on the new chest piece. I am reading significant higher output and your vitals all look promising.
Tony Stark: Yes, for the moment, Im not dying. Thank you.
Pepper: [Image appears on second screen] What do you mean youre not dying? Did you just say youre dying?
Tony Stark: Is that you? No, Im not. Not anymore. [Natasha looks confused.]
Pepper: Whats going on?
Tony Stark: I was going to tell you. I didnt want to alarm you.
Pepper: You were gonna tell me? You really were dying?
Tony Stark: You didnt let me.
Pepper: Why didnt you tell me that?
Tony Stark: I was gonna make you an omelette and tell you.
Natasha: Hey, hey. Save it for the honeymoon. You got incoming Tony. Looks like the fights coming to you.
Tony Stark: Great. Pepper?
Pepper: Are you okay now?
Tony Stark: I am fine. Dont be mad. I will formally apologise
Pepper: I am mad!
Tony Stark: when Im not fending off a Hammeroid attack.
Pepper: Fine.
Tony Stark: We could have been in Venice.
Pepper: Oh please.
[Tony taps Rhodeys helmet as the system restarts.]
Tony Stark: Rhodes? Snap out of it buddy. I need you. Theyre coming. Come on, lets roll. Get up.
Rhodey: [Helmet opens] Oh, man. You can have your suit back.
Tony Stark: [Helps him up] You okay?
Rhodey: Yeah, thanks. Tony, look, Im sorry, okay?
Tony Stark: Dont be.
Rhodey: No. I should have trusted you more.
Tony Stark: Im the one who put you in this position. Forget it.
Rhodey: No. Its your fault. I just wanted to say Im sorry.
Tony Stark: Thank you. Thats all I wanted to hear. Partner. Theyre coming in hot, any second. Whats the play?
Rhodey: Well, we want to take the high ground, okay? So lets put the biggest gun up on that ridge.
Tony Stark: Got you. Where do you want to be?
Rhodey: Where are you going?
Tony Stark: Whatre you talking about?
Rhodey: I meant me.
Tony Stark: You have a big gun. You are not the big gun.
Rhodey: Tony, dont be jealous.
Tony Stark: No. Its subtle all the bells and whistles.
Rhodey: Yeah. Its called being a badass.
Tony Stark: Fine. All right. You go up to. Ill draw them in.
Rhodey: Dont stay down here. This is the worst place to be.
Tony Stark: Okay, you got a spot. Wheres mine?
Rhodey: Its the kill box, Tony. Okay This is where you go to die. [Drones incoming. And Rhodey and Ton are still in the kill box. Helmets down. Shooting begins.]
Tony Stark: See that?
Rhodey: Yeah, yeah. Nice.
Tony Stark: Rhodey? Get down. [Laser slices all the drones in half. And a tree.]
Rhodey: Wow. I think you should lead with that next time.
Tony Stark: Yeah. Sorry boss. I can only use it one. Its a one-off.
[Back inside Expo]
Justin: I told you that five minutes ago.
Pepper: [As police enter] Thats your guy here.
Justin: Excuse me?
Police officer: Youre being placed under arrest.
Justin: Are you kidding me?
Police officer: Hands behind your back sir.
Justin: Im trying to help here. I get it. I see what youre doing. Youre trying to pin this on me, huh? Thats good. Thats good. Youre starting to think like a CEO, taking out the competition. I like that. You think youre making a problem for me? [Being led away] Im gonna make a problem for you. Im gonna be seeing you again real soon.
Pepper: [Now outside with some police officers] When they get here, I think you should station them at the south, east and both west exits.
Police officer: We shut down the 7 train in and out of Willets Point already.
Pepper: Well, have city buses there to ferry people to operating lines.
Police officer: Yeah. Are you coming with us?
Pepper: No, Im gonna stay until to park is clear.
Police officer: Okay.
[Hammer Industries]
Natasha: Head up. You got one more drone incoming. This one looks different. [Tony and Rhodey; Natasha on speaker] The repulsor signature is significantly higher.
Ivan: [Landing in a full suit] Good to be back.
Rhodey: This aint gonna be good. [Ivans whisps turn on] I got something special for this guy. Im gonna bust his bunker with the Ex-Wife.
Tony Stark: With the what? [Rhodey shoots it and it bounces off Ivan, fizzling off in the water] Hammer tech?
Rhodey: Yeah.
Tony Stark: I got this. [Targets points on Ivans armour. Doesnt do much. Both shooting, fighting. Ends with both Tony and Rhodey held onto by Ivans whips] Rhodes. I got an idea. You want to be a hero?
Rhodey: What?
Tony Stark: I could really use a sidekick. Put your hand up.
Rhodey: This is your idea?
Tony Stark: Yep.
Rhodey: Im ready. Im ready. Go, go, go!
Tony Stark: Take it! [Same as at the house, they shoot each other and the middle explodes. Unfortunately for Ivan, he is in the middle]
Ivan: You lose. [Dies. Reactor starts flashing red. So do all the drones]
Rhodey: All these drones are rigged to blow. We gotta get out of here man.
Tony Stark: Pepper? [Takes off. Pepper is by a drone. Tony grabs her just as it explodes. They land on a roof. Takes off helmet.]
Pepper: Oh my God. I cant take this anymore.
Tony Stark: You cant?
Pepper: I cant take this.
Tony Stark: Look at me.
Pepper: My body, literally, cannot handle the stress. I never know if youre gonna kill yourself or wreak the whole company.
Tony Stark: I think I did okay. [Everything being on fire having been covered by exploding drones behind him. One more explosion. Just as he finishes speaking.]
Pepper: I quit. Im resigning. Thats it.
Tony Stark: What did you just say? Youre done? Thats surprising. No, its not surprising. I get it. You dont have to make excuses.
Pepper: Im Im Im not making any excuses.
Tony Stark: You actually were just making excuses. But you dont have to.
Pepper: No, I wasnt making an excuse. Im actually very justified.
Tony Stark: Listen. Hey, hey. You deserve better.
Pepper: Well
Tony Stark: Youve taken such good care of me. Ive been in a tough spot, but you got me through it, so Right?
Pepper: Thank you.
Tony Stark: Yeah.
Pepper: Thank you for understanding.
Tony Stark: Yeah, yeah. Lets talk clean-up.
Pepper: Ill handle the transition. Itll be smooth.
Tony Stark: Okay. What about the press? Because you only had the job for a week. Thats gonna seem
Pepper: Well, with you its like dog years.
Tony Stark: I know.
Pepper: I mean, its like the Presidency. [They kiss]
Tony Stark: Weird.
Pepper: No, its not weird.
Tony Stark: Its okay, right?
Pepper: Yeah.
Tony Stark: Run that by me again. [They start to kiss again]
Rhodey: I think it was weird. [They break apart and turn around] You guys look like two seals fighting over a grape.
Pepper: I had just quit, actually.
Tony Stark: Yeah, so were not
Rhodey: You dont have to do that. I heard the whole thing.
Tony Stark: You should get lost.
Rhodey: I was here first. Get a roof.
Tony Stark: I thought you were out of one-liners.
Rhodey: Thats the last one.
Tony Stark: You kicked ass back there, by the way.
Rhodey: Thank you. You too. Listen, my car got taken out in the explosion, so Im gonna have to hang on to your suit for a minute, okay?
Tony Stark: Not okay. Not okay with that.
Rhodey: It wasnt a question. [Takes off]
Tony Stark: How are you gonna resign if I dont accept?
[Scene change. Some kind of building. Tony is inside sitting at a table. SHIELD logo is there.
Picks up file. AVENGERS INITIATIVE PREMLIMIARY REPORT
Nick Fury enters while looking and stops him opening it]
Fury: I dont think I want you looking at that. Im not sure it pertains to you anymore. Now this on the other hand, is Agent Romanoffs assessment of you. Read it. [Hands Tony the file]
Tony Stark: Personality overview. Mr Stark displays compulsive behaviour. In my own defence, that was last week. Prone to self-destructive tendencies. I was dying. I mean, please. Arent we all? Textbook narcissism? Agreed. Okay, here it is. Recruitment assessment for Avenger Initiative. Iron Man? Yes. I gotta think about it.
Fury: Read on.
Tony Stark: Tony Stark not Not recommended? That doesnt make any sense. How can you approve me but not approve me? I got a new ticker. Im trying to do right by Pepper. Im in a stable-ish relationship. [Fury walks round and rest against the table by Tonys chair]
Fury: Which leads us to believe at this juncture wed only like to use you as a consultant. [Tony stands and offers his hand. They shake]
Tony Stark: [Clasping his other hand on top of Furys] You cant afford me. [Goes to leave, but turns around again] Then again, I will waive my customary retainer in exchange for a small favour. Rhodey and I are being honoured in Washington and we need a presenter.
Fury: Ill see what I can do.
[Scene change. Washington. ACDCs Highway To Hell Starts to play]
Stern: It is my honour to be here today to present these distinguished awards to Lieutenant Colonel James Rhodes and Mr Tony Stark, who is, of course, a national treasure. [Pinning on medals] Thank you Lieutenant Colonel, for such and exceptionally distinguished performance. You deserve this.
Rhodey: Thank you sir.
Stern: Mr Stark. Thank you for such as exceptionally distinguished performance. You deserve this. [Tony winces in pain] Oh, sorry. Funny how annoying a little prick can be, isnt it? Lets get a photo.
[Pose for a photo. Roll credits. Cue end credits scene. A car rolls up. Well-dressed shoes. Agent Coulson looks down on a crater. Takes off sunglasses and pulls out phone]
Agent Coulson: Sir, weve found it.
[Camera pans out and there seems to be a hammer. The End.][BURNING BLUE FLAMES. A smoky cube shape emerges - THE TESSERACT. Filling the screen with BLACKNESS.]
CUT TO: EXT. THRONE ROOM, SPACE - NIGHT
[Kneeling behind a THRONE, a clothed, armored figure known as THE OTHER.]
THE OTHER: The tesseract has awakened. It is on a little world. A human world. They would wield its power... [he holds out the scepter]
Loki: [Coming out from the shadows, taking the staff]
THE OTHER: But our ally knows its workings as they never will. He is ready to lead. And our force, our Chitauri, will follow.
[Thousands of Chitauri are awaiting orders]
THE OTHER: The world will be his. The universe yours. And the humans, what can they do but burn?
[Cut to a SHIELD facility at night. They are evacuating by helicopter and vehicle, and one helicopter lands, dropping off Maria Hill and Nick Fury while Agent Phil Coulson is awaiting them.]
NICK FURY: How bad is it?
AGENT PHIL COULSON: That's the problem sir. We don't know.
[They enter the facility, passing fleeing technicians, taking only the essentials]
COULSON: Dr. Selvig read an energy surge from the Tesseract four hours ago.
FURY: NASA didn't authorise Selvig to test phase.
COULSON: He wasn't testing it, he wasn't even in the room. Spontaneous advancement.
AGENT MARIA HILL: It just turned itself on?
FURY: What are the energy levels
COULSON: Climbing. When Selvig couldn't shut it down, we ordered evac.
FURY: How long to get everyone out?
COULSON: Campus should be clear in the next half hour.
FURY: Do better.
[They continue walking down deeper into the facility]
HILL: Sir, evacuation may be futile.
FURY: We should tell them to go back to sleep?
HILL: If we can't control the Tesseract's energy, there may not be a minimum safe distance.
FURY: I need you to make sure Phase 2 prototypes are shipped out.
HILL: Sir, is that really a priority right now?
FURY: Until such a time as the world ends, we will act as though it intends to spin on. Clear out the tech below. Every piece of Phase 2 on a truck and gone.
HILL: Yes sir. [To agents nearby.] With me.
[Nick fury and Agent Phil Coulson enter the radiation facility housing the Tesseract, the area cluttered with machines and people leaving.]
FURY: Talk to me doctor.
[Dr. Erik Selvig appears from behind a CMS machine, concerned. The Tesseract is glowing unusually brighter and a flare of blue shoots out from it, hitting things at random.]
Dr. ERIK SELVIG: Director.
FURY: Is there anything we know for certain?
SELVIG: The Tesseract is misbehaving.
FURY: Is that supposed to be funny?
SELVIG: No, it's not funny at all. The Tesseract is not only active, she's... misbehaving.
FURY: How soon until you pull the plug?
SELVIG: She's an energy source. If we turn off the power, she turns it back on. If she reaches peak level...
FURY: We've prepared for this doctor. Harnessing energy from space.
SELVIG: We don't have the harness. Our calculations are far from complete. Now she's throwing off interference, radiation. Nothing harmful, low levels of gamma radiation.
FURY: That can be harmful. Where's Barton?
SELVIG: The Hawk? Up in his nest, as usual
[We cut to Clint Barton, dressed in black tactical gear, up on the railings watching them below. Fury calls Barton on his earpiece.]
FURY: Agent Barton, report.
[Barton rappels down from the catwalk, and walks up to Fury. They both walk around the bottom of the facility in a discreet manner.]
FURY: I gave you this detail so you could keep a close eye on things.
CLINT BARTON: Well, I see better from a distance.
FURY: Are you seeing anything that might set this thing off?
NASA SCIENTIST: [To Dr. Erik Selvig] Doctor, it's spiking again.
CLINT: No one's come or gone. It's oven is clean. No contacts, no I.M.s. If there was any tampering, sir, it wasn't at this end.
FURY: At this end?
CLINT: Yeah, the cube is a doorway to the other end of space, right? The doors open from both sides.
[Dr. Erik Selvig types on his keyboard and the monitor flashes. Suddenly, the Tesseract thunders and shakes the entire facility. Both Agent Coulson nearby, and Maria Hill topside, feel the tremors. The cube glows brighter and emits a ring of light, and builds like a beam, similar to the Bifrost bridge. The power hits the edge of the platform, and begins to form a vortex, which becomes a portal. Space appears through the portal, and a gust of blue energy knocks people back. The cloud shoots to the ceiling, and the portal on the platform opens up as Loki steps through. The portal vanishes, and Loki grins at everyone, holding his spear. He frowns as he sees them looking at him.]
FURY: Sir please put down the spear.
[Loki responds with firing a blast of blue energy from his spear, while Barton narrowly tackles Fury out of the way. Everyone shoots at Loki, but the bullets deflect off of him. Loki immediately takes down everyone shooting at him easily, with knives and energy blasts from his sceptre. He pauses, grinning, and looks to who will attack him next. Barton attempts to attack him, but Loki grabs his wrist, disarming him.]
LOKI: You have heart.
[Loki places the tip of the spear against Barton's chest. Barton's eye glow black, and he stops resisting. Loki begins controlling other agents around the room. Fury sneak up, grabs the Tesseract, and places it in a briefcase, trying to sneak out.]
LOKI: Please don't. I still need that.
FURY: [ turning to face Loki ] This doesn't have to get any messier.
LOKI: Of course it does. I've come too far for anything else. I am Loki of Asgard, and I am burdened with glorious purpose.
SELVIG: Loki? Brother of Thor?
FURY: We have no quarrel with your people.
LOKI: An ant had no quarrel with a boot.
FURY: You planning to step on us?
LOKI: I come with glad tidings, of a world made free.
FURY: Free from what?
LOKI: Freedom. Freedom is life's great lie. Once you accept that, in your heart...[Like a gunslinger, Loki turns to face Selvig who's standing behind him and places his spear against Selvig's heart. Selvig's eyes glow black.]
LOKI: You will know peace.
FURY: Yeah, you say peace, I kind of think you mean the other thing.
[From the vacuum chamber ceiling, the Tesseract's energy cloud rapidly builds into what may be an implosion.]
CLINT: Sir, Director Fury is stalling. This place is about to blow. Drop a hundred feet of rock on us. He means to bury us.
FURY: Like the Pharaohs of old.
SELVIG: He's right. The portal is collapsing in on itself. You got maybe two minutes before this goes critical.
LOKI: Well then.
[Loki looks to Barton, who without hesitation shoots Fury, who falls to the ground. Barton grabs the case containing the Tesseract and leaves the lab with Loki, Selvig, and the other controlled SHIELD personnel.]
[The controlled SHIELD personnel are gathering weapons and getting ready to leave the facility. Agent Hill watches in confusion.]
CLINT: [Pointing to Loki and his team] Need these vehicles.
HILL: Who's that?
CLINT: He didn't tell me.
[Agent Hill eyes them suspiciously as they get into a truck and begin to drive away.]
FURY: [grabbing a walkie talkie] Hill, do you copy?
[Loki and his crew look back at Agent Hill.]
[Back at the lab, Fury is sitting up, pulling the bullet out, and breathing hard.]
FURY: Barton is...
[Maria turns around and shoots Barton, who is already shooting at her, and they drive away while she takes cover, still firing at them.]
FURY: [Running out of the lab, holding his side.] He's got the Tesseract! Track it down!
[The energy discharge from the Tesseract is building up on the ceiling, rumbling and growing recklessly, destroying structures and cracking the walls.]
[Maria Hill jumps into a Jeep and takes chase on Loki and crew. Several other trucks begin to attack Loki's truck as well, and Loki releases a blast of energy, obliterating SHIELD trucks and causing a blockage in the tunnel. Agent Hill is forced to keep distance on her pursuit.]
[Down below, Fury is racing against the clock as pipes burst around him. The walls are cracking, and the facility is suffering an internal earthquake.]
[Agent Coulson is grabbing cases, and trips down the stairs while the ground shudders. Others with him drop cases full of information and equipment.]
COULSON: No! Leave it!
[They all leave the cases behind and leave the lab running.]
[Barton and Agent Hill are caught in a truck race, where she pulls in front of him to try and block him. He responds with firing at her at close range, which causes Agent Hill to shoot out her own windshield to try and hit him.]
[Agent Coulson and his group take a Jeep and evacuate as well.]
COULSON: [on a walkie talkie] You're clear, sir! You need to go!
[Fury runs across the tarmac to a helicopter. The ground gives way seconds after the helicopter leaves the ground, falling into a sinkhole.]
[Still racing down the tunnel, Agent Hill and Barton are locked in combat. A blast wave from the Tesseract causes the tunnel to collapse partially. One of Loki's trucks makes it out, but Maria's truck is stuck.]
[The Tesseract's energy cloud now shrinks into a small ball of white light, hovering in the air. In a flash of blue light, the facility is consumed along with its surroundings. Fury watches from below as a rapid build up into an implosion.]
[Several miles away, Agent Coulson's van jolts from the blastwave on the horizon behind them.]
[The entire facility implodes with terrifying magnitude, and the implosion rocks the ground.]
[Maria Hill is stuck, her jeep behind as the full force of the blast tears down on the tunnel, covering herself by being inside of the jeep, light from the night spilling in close by.]
[Barton's truck drives away, but Fury's helicopter hovers over it, and Fury opens fire with his pistol. Loki, in a fit of rage, fires an energy blast at the helicopter. The helicopter is skimmed my the blast, but catches fire. He jumps out of the flaming helicopter seconds before it hits the ground and shreds itself into debris. Fury stands back up, dazed, and shoots at Loki, but they're too far away.]
COULSON: [over a walkie talkie] Director? Director Fury, do you copy?
FURY: The tesseract is with the hostile force. I have men down. Hill?
HILL: [climbing out of the wreckage of her jeep] A lot of men still under, don't know how many survivors.
[From the ground, Fury surveys the wreckage.]
FURY: Sound the general call. I want every living soul not working rescue looking for that briefcase.
HILL: [using a walkie talkie] Roger that.
FURY: Coulson, get back to base. This is a Level Seven. As of right now, we are at war.
COULSON: What do we do?
[Nick Fury looks up, a thought on his mind.]
[The scene is is Russia. There is a building, a warehouse, next to some unfinished railroad tracks under construction. The building is only occupied by Georgi Luchkov, a Russian general, and two thugs, with a prisoner amongst them, tied to a chair. The taller thug is in the middle of hitting the spy, a red headed Russian woman in a black tank top. They have a conversation in Russian.]
GENERAL LUCHKOV: [in Russian] This is not how I wanted the evening to go.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: I know how you wanted this evening to go. Believe me, this is better.
LUCHKOV: I'd like to know why they sent you to carry out a carrier, a stained glass and other random items.
[The taller thug pushes her chair back, tilting it over the edge of a few story drop, and Natasha hides her fear.]
NATASHA: I thought General Solohob was in charge of the export business.
LUCHKOV: Solohob? Your reputation is quite a progression. The famous Black Widow. Nothing but a pretty face.
NATASHA: You really think I'm pretty?
[Luchkov walks over to a table filled with tools of torture and interrogation, picking up a pair of pliers. The tall thug next to her forces her jaw open.]
LUCHKOV: We do not need the Lermontov to transfer the tanks. Tell him, well... [In english] You may have to write it down.
[A phone rings, and the weaselly thug looks to his phone in confusion. He picks it up.]
WEASELLY THUG: Ya? [He looks to Luchkov.] It's for you.
[Luchkov takes the phone, annoyed and angry.]
LUCHKOV: Who the hell is...
COULSON: You're at 114 Solenski Plaza, 3rd floor. We have an F22 exactly 8 miles out. Put the woman on the phone or I will blow up the block before you can make the lobby.
[Luchkov places the cell phone against Natasha's ear seeing how she's tied to a chair with her hands tied behind her back.]
COULSON: We need you to come in.
NATASHA: Are you kidding? I'm working!
COULSON: This takes precedence.
NATASHA: I'm in the middle of an interrogation and this moron is giving me everything.
LUCHKOV: [Confused] I don't give everything.
NATASHA: [Frowning at Luchkov] Look, you can't pull me out of this right now.
COULSON: Natasha. Barton's been compromised.
NATASHA: [After a beat] Let me put you on hold.
[Natasha nods to Luchkov. When he grabs the phone, she hits him with her leg and headbuts him. She stands, still tied to the chair, and kickboxes the tall thug in the face. She rolls over to the weasely thug, trips him, and stomps on his foot when he tries to pin her, then she knocks him out with a headbut. Coulson waits calmly, listening to her take three men down with her arms literally tied behind her back. She flips, breaking the chair on weasely thugs' ribcage, and looks to the tall thug, standing up. She kicks him too, chocking him out cold. She then wraps Luchkov's legs with a chain and pushes him down the hole he was threatening to drop her down. He hangs there, in pain, and she grabs her shoes and the phone.]
NATASHA: Where's Barton now?
COULSON: We don't know.
NATASHA: But he's alive.
COULSON: We think so. I'll brief you on everything when you get back. But first, we need you to talk to the big guy.
NATASHA: Coulson, you know that Stark only trusts me about as far as he can throw me.
COULSON: No, I've got Stark. You get the big guy.
NATASHA: [pausing and hanging up the phone.] Bozhe moi. [Russian translation for My God]
[At night, a slum in India it attacked by a sickness. A little girl runs into the middle of a makeshift hospital in someone's home, pushing through the crowd frantically. She runs up the steps inside to greet the only doctor, Bruce Banner. They begin speaking in Hindu.]
ATTENDING WOMAN: What are you doing here?! Get out! You shouldn't be here.
LITTLE GIRL: I have to see the doctor. It's my father.
BRUCE: Calm down. What's wrong?
LITTLE GIRL: My father... [she looks to the other sick people, laying down and moaning in pain.]
BRUCE: Is he like them?
[The little girl holds out money, crumpled and looking desperate.]
LITTLE GIRL: [In English] Please.
[Banner and the little girl run quickly to the edge of town. She leads him quickly through narrow passageways, and is proving too fast to keep up with. Banner spots a nice car, and looks around, worried. He runs into the girls house, when she leaves through a window, untraceable.]
BRUCE: Should have gotten paid up front, Banner.
NATASHA: [Entering the room behind him, making Banner turn around.] You know, for a man who's supposed to be avoiding stress, you picked a hell of a place to settle.
BRUCE: Avoiding stress isn't the secret.
NATASHA: Then, what is it? Yoga?
BANNER: You brought me to the edge of the city, smart. I uh... assume the whole place is surrounded?
NATASHA: Just you and me.
BRUCE: And your actress buddy, is she a spy too? Do they start that young?
NATASHA: I did.
BRUCE: Who are you?
NATASHA: Natasha Romanoff.
BRUCE: Are you here to kill me, Miss Romanoff? Because that's not gonna work out for everyone.
NATASHA: No. No. Of course not. I'm here on behalf of SHIELD.
BRUCE: SHIELD. How did they find me?
NATASHA: We never lost you, doctor. We've kept our distance, even helped keep some other interested parties off your scent.
BRUCE: Why?
NATASHA: Nick Fury seems to trust you. But now I need you to come in.
BRUCE: What if I said no?
NATASHA: I'll persuade you.
BRUCE: And what if the... other guy says no?
NATASHA: You've been more than a year without an incident. I don't think you wanna break that streak.
BRUCE: [gently pushing a cradle] I don't always get what I want.
NATASHA: Doctor, we're facing a potential global catastrophe.
BRUCE: Well, those I actively try to avoid.
NATASHA: This is the Tesseract. It has the potential energy to wipe out the planet.
[She shows him a photo of the Tesseract on her cell phone. Banner takes a closer look.]
BRUCE: What does Fury want me to do? Swallow it?
NATASHA: Well, he wants you to find it. It's been taken. It emits a gamma signature that's too weak for us to trace. There's no one that knows gamma radiation like you do. If there was, that's where I'd be.
BRUCE: So Fury isn't after the monster?
NATASHA: Not that he's told me.
BRUCE: And he tells you everything?
NATASHA: Talk to Fury, he needs you on this.
BRUCE: He needs me in a cage?
NATASHA: No one's gonna put you in a...
BRUCE: STOP LYING TO ME! [Banner slams his fists onto the table]
[Natasha grabs a gun hidden under the table, pointing it at him. Banner stays still, grinning]
BRUCE: I'm sorry, that was mean. I just wanted to see what you'd do. Why don't we do this the easy way, where you don't use that, and the other guy doesn't make a mess? Okay? Natasha...
[Natasha, still wary, doesn't lower her gun. She lowers her gun and speaks into her earpiece.]
NATASHA: [on her earpiece] Stand down. We're good here.
[Dozens of soldiers armed to the teeth have surrounded the small house, but at her signal they back off a bit.]
BRUCE: [smiles back at Natasha] Just you and me?
[Inside a SHIELD analytical room, filled with monitors of partially silhouetted people. Fury stands in the middle, frowning. They make up the World Security Council.]
COUNCIL MEMBER 1: This is out of line, Director. You're dealing with forces you can't control.
FURY: You ever been in a war, Councilman? In a firefight? Did you feel an overabundance of control?
COUNCIL MEMBER 1: You saying that this Asgard has declared war on our planet?
FURY: Not Asgard, Loki.
COUNCIL MEMBER 2: He can't be working alone. What about the other one? His brother.
FURY: Our intelligence says, Thor is not a hostile. But he's worlds away, we can't depend on him to help. It's up to us.
COUNCIL MEMBER 1: Which is why you should be focusing on phase 2, it was designed for exactly...
FURY: PHASE 2 isn't ready, our enemy is. We need a response team.
COUNCIL MEMBER 1: The Avengers Initiative was shut down.
FURY: This isn't about The Avengers.
COUNCIL MEMBER 1: We're running the world's greatest covert security network and you're gonna leave the fate of human race to a handful of freaks.
FURY: I'm not leaving anything to anyone. We need a response team. These people maybe isolated, unbalanced even, but I believe with the right push they can be exactly what we need.
COUNCIL MEMBER 2: You believe?
COUNCIL MEMBER 1: War isn't won by sentiment, Director.
FURY: No, it's won by soldiers.
[A Brooklyn gym at night. Occupied by one man, beating a punching bag in the gym lights, alone in the floor, lost in the fight. The gym is old, as old as the man inside, Captain America, or Steve Rogers. He beats the bag harder, like physically hurting it will repress the memories.]
[FLASHBACK]
[Hydra base, Captain America is running through a forest, dodging mortar shells, gunfire and Tesseract energy blasts.]
STEVE: [Echoey] There's not enough time! I gotta put her in the water!
[In the present, Steve's punches become harder and more violent.]
[in the flashback, Steve places the compass he has, featuring a picture of Peggy Carter, on the dash as the plane plummets towards the ice.]
[The present, punches become violent and aggressive.]
PEGGY CARTER: [flashback voice] You won't be alone.
[Red Skull picked up the Tesseract, and vanishes.]
[In the present, Steve is breathing the bag with everything he has, destroying it and beating his fists.]
SHIELD SCIENCETIST: [flashback] Oh my god!
[Steve is lying on a table, half frozen, and still partially trapped in a slab of ice. Two SHIELD scientists run equipment over him, checking for his vitals. Something flickers...]
SHIELD SCIENCETIST: This guy is still alive!
[Present. Steve punched the bag, easily a hundred pounds, across the room with one swing snapping the metal chain and pummeling it back a dozen feet, sand spilling out from where he cracked the fabric. He stands up, breathing hard, and grabs another bag, resuming a more normal routine. Fury walks in.]
FURY: Trouble sleeping?
STEVE: I slept for seventy years, sir. I think I've had my fill.
FURY: Then you should be out, celebrating, seeing the world.
[Steve stops punching and walks over to the bench, unraveling the tape off his hands. He sits down.]
STEVE: I went under, the world was at war, I wake up, they say we won. They didn't say what we lost.
FURY: We've made some mistakes along the way. Some very recently.
STEVE: You here with a mission, sir?
FURY: I am.
STEVE: Trying to get me back in the world?
FURY: Trying to save it. [Fury hands Steve a file on the Tesseract, along with other files on HYDRA'S projects]
STEVE: Hydra's secret weapon.
FURY: Howard Stark fished that out of the ocean when he was looking for you. He thought what we think, the Tesseract could be the key to unlimited sustainable energy. That's something the world sorely needs.
STEVE: Who took it from you?
FURY: He's called Loki. He's not from around here. There's a lot we'll have to bring you up to speed on if you're in. The world has gotten even stranger than you already know.
STEVE: At this point, I doubt anything would surprise me.
FURY: Ten bucks says you're wrong. There's a debriefing package waiting for you back at your apartment.
[Steve turns and picks up a punching bag. Fury starts walking out of the gym.]
FURY: Is there anything you can tell us about the Tesseract that we ought to know now?
STEVE: [Without missing a beat] You should have left it in the ocean.
[Out in the Atlantic Ocean, Tony Stark, in his Iron Man suit, is cutting a pipeline transport with a laser cutter coming from his hand. He then places a Stark Energy Reactor. It lights up. Iron Man rockets out of the water and flies towards Stark Tower]
Tony Stark: You're good on this end. The rest is up to you.
PEPPER POTTS: [on the other line] You disconnected the transition lines? Are we off the grid?
Tony Stark: Stark Tower is about to become a beacon of self-sustaining clean energy.
PEPPER: Wow. So maybe our reactor takes over, and it actually works?
[INSIDE THE SUIT -- PEPPER APPEARS ON HIS HUD MONITOR.]
Tony Stark: I assume. Light her up. [Iron Man flies to the Stark Tower Building, the power is switched on the Stark sign lights up]
PEPPER: How does it look?
Tony Stark: Like Christmas, but with more... me.
PEPPER Gotta go wider on the public awareness campaign. You need to do some press. I'm in DC tomorrow. I'm working on the zoning for the next three buildings.
Tony Stark: Pepper, you're killing me. Remember the moment? Enjoy the moment.
PEPPER: Then get in here and I will. [Tony arrives at his skyscraper penthouse and is in the process of taking off his Iron Man suit through a hi-tech gauntlet of gadgets.]
JARVIS: Sir, Agent Coulson of SHIELD is on the line.
Tony Stark: I'm not in. I'm actually out.
JARVIS: Sir, I'm afraid he's insisting.
Tony Stark: Grow a spine, Jarvis. I got a date.
[Pepper Potts stares up at the monitors of the reactor device.]
PEPPER: Levels are holding steady... I think.
Tony Stark: Of course they are, I was directly involved. Which brings me to my next question: how does it feel to be a genius?
PEPPER: Well, ha, I really wouldn't know now, would I?
Tony Stark: What do you mean? All this came from you.
PEPPER: No. All this came from that. [Points to the energy in his chest plate.]
Tony Stark: Give yourself some credit, please. Stark Tower is your baby. Give yourself... twelve percent of the credit.
PEPPER: Twelve percent?
Tony Stark: An argument can be made for fifteen.
PEPPER: Twelve percent? For my baby?
Tony Stark: Well, I did do all the heavy lifting. Literally, I lifted the heavy things. And sorry, but the security snafu? That was on you.
PEPPER: Oooooh.
Tony Stark: My private elevator...
PEPPER: You mean our elevator?
Tony Stark: Was steaming with sweaty workmen. I'm going to pay for that comment about percentages in some subtle way later, aren't I?
[Pepper pours herself and Tony a glass of champagne.]
PEPPER: Not gonna be that subtle.
Tony Stark: I'll tell you what. Next building's gonna say 'Potts' on the tower.
PEPPER: On the lease.
Tony Stark: Call your mom, can you bunk over?
JARVIS: Sir, the telephone. I'm afraid my protocols are being overwritten.
COULSON: Stark, we need to talk.
[Tony picks up his phone and looks into it at Coulson.]
Tony Stark: You have reached the life model decoy of Tony Stark, please leave a message.
COULSON: This is urgent.
Tony Stark: Then leave it urgently. [At that moment the elevator door opens and Coulson appears.] Security breach. [To Pepper] That's on you.
COULSON: Mr. Stark
PEPPER: Phil! Come in.
Tony Stark: Phil? Uh, his first name is Agent.
PEPPER: Come on in, we're celebrating.
COULSON: I can't stay
Tony Stark: Which is why he can't stay.
COULSON: We need you to look this over. [He holds out a file towards Tony] Soon as possible.
Tony Stark: I don't like being handed things.
PEPPER: That's alright, 'cause I love to be handed things. So, let's trade. [She pases her glass of champagne to Coulson, takes the file from him, then takes Tony's glass of champagne while passing the file over to Tony] Thank you.
Tony Stark: Official consulting hours are between eight and five every other Thursday.
COULSON: This isn't a consultation.
PEPPER: Is this about The Avengers? Which I...I know nothing about.
Tony Stark: The Avengers Initiative was scrapped, I thought. And I didn't even qualify.
PEPPER: I didn't know that either.
Tony Stark: Yeah, apparently I'm volatile, self-obsessed, don't play well with others.
PEPPER: That I did know.
COULSON: This isn't about personality profiles anymore.
Tony Stark: Whatever. Miss Potts, got a minute? [Pepper walks over to Tony who places the files into his own databases.]
Tony Stark: You know, I thought we were having a moment.
PEPPER: I was having twelve percent of a moment. This seems serious, Phil's pretty shaken.
Tony Stark: How did you notice? Why is he Phil?
PEPPER: What is all of this?
Tony Stark: This is, uh... [Tony expands his arms and different profiles appear in holographic form floating in the air in front of Tony and Pepper.] This.
[Screens appear of Captain America in action, the Hulk roaring as he attacks the army at Culver University, and Thor fighting the Destroyer in New Mexico. Another is of Loki and the Tesseract to which Tony and Pepper look at in awe]
PEPPER: I'm going to take the jet to DC tonight.
Tony Stark: Tomorrow.
PEPPER: You've got homework. You've got a lot of homework.
Tony Stark: Well, what if I didn't?
PEPPER: If you didn't?
Tony Stark: Yeah.
PEPPER: You mean if you finished? [Tony nods his head] Well, um...then. [She whispers something in his ear. Tony gasps. Coulson looks away in embarrassment.]
Tony Stark: Square deal. It's the last date.
[Pepper kisses him.]
PEPPER: Work hard.
[As Pepper leaves with Agent Coulson, Tony grabs the Tesseract in holograph form, worried.]
[Inside the Quinjet, Steve is sitting down with a tablet, watching the footage of the Hulk's attack on the Army at Culver University]
PILOT: We're about forty minutes out from base, sir.
[Agent Coulson stands up from his seat and walks over to Steve.]
STEVE: So, this Doctor Banner was trying to replicate the serum that was used on me?
COULSON: A lot of people were. You were the world's first superhero. Banner thought gamma radiation might hold the key to unlocking Erskine's original formula. [The Hulk roars with fury as he slams a jeep apart.]
STEVE: Didn't really go his way, did it?
COULSON: Not so much. When he's not that thing though, guy's like a Stephen Hawking. [Steve looks confused.] He's like a smart person. I gotta say, it's an honor to meet you, officially. [Steve smiles at Coulson.] I sort of met you, I mean, I watched you while you were sleeping. [Steve looks down. He stands up, closes his laptop and walks to the side with Coulson following.] I mean, I was... I was present while you were unconscious from the ice. You know, it's really, it's just a... just a huge honor to have you on board.
STEVE: Well, I hope I'm the man for the job.
COULSON: Oh, you are. Absolutely. Uh... we've made some modifications to the uniform. I had a little design input.
STEVE: The uniform? Aren't the stars and stripes a little... old fashioned?
COULSON: With everything that's happening, the things that are about to come to light, people might just need a little old fashioned. [Steve takes in Coulson's sentiment.]
[in the underground lab, Several soldiers under Loki's mind control run around, preparing to infiltrate whatever Loki has planned. Loki sits down, watching Selvig work with a CMS device. Loki meditates, until...the scepter materializes him back into the throne room of the Other, fully armed in his horned helmet and armor. The other appears from the steps.]
THE OTHER: The Chitauri grow restless
LOKI: Let them go at themselves. I will lead them into glorious battle.
THE OTHER: Battle? Against the meager might of Earth?
LOKI: Glorious, not lengthy. If your force is as formidable as you claim.
THE OTHER: You question us? You question him? He who put the scepter in your hand, who gave you ancient knowledge and new purpose when you were cast out, defeated?
LOKI: I was a king! The rightful king of Asgard! Betrayed!
THE OTHER: Your ambition is little, born of childish need. We look beyond the Earth to greater worlds the Tesseract will unveil.
LOKI: You don't have the Tesseract yet. [The Other runs over to attack him, but stops as Loki points his scepter.] I don't threaten, but until I open the doors, until your force is mine to command, you are but words.
THE OTHER: You will have your war, Asgardian. If you fail, if the Tesseract is kept from us, there will be no realm, no barren moon, no crevice where he can't find you. You think you know pain? He will make you long for something as sweet as pain. [The Other places his hand on Loki's head and transports him back to Earth. Loki looks around, cautiously.]
[The Quinjet lands down a massive battleship known as the Helicarrier. It has two runways. One with direct access to a hangar at the rear is aligned along the spine of the vessel. Agent Coulson and Steve walk down the ramp, meeting up with Natasha.]
COULSON: Agent Romanoff, Captain Rogers.
STEVE: Ma'am?
NATASHA: Hi. [She looks at Coulson] They need you on the bridge. They're starting the face-trace.
COULSON: See you there. [Coulson walks away, leaving Steve with Natasha, the pair walking towards the railing of the Helicarrier]
NATASHA: It was quite the buzz around here, finding you in the ice. I thought Coulson was gonna swoon. Did he ask you to sign his Captain America trading cards yet?
STEVE: Trading cards?
NATASHA: They're vintage, he's very proud.
[Bruce Banner is seen walking around the ship, trying to stay out of the way while people walk in his way]
STEVE: Dr. Banner.
[The two walk up to each other and shake hands]
BRUCE: Oh, yeah. Hi. They told me you'd be coming.
STEVE: Word is you can find the cube.
BRUCE: Is that the only word on me?
STEVE: Only word I care about.
BRUCE: [Takes in the sentiment] It must be strange for you, all of this.
STEVE: [Looks off to where a group of men in training are running, remembering his days in the army] Well, this is actually kind of familiar.
NATASHA: Gentlemen, you might want to step inside in a minute. It's gonna get a little hard to breath.
[The Helicarrier starts to shake as it prepares to take "sail". Others aboard strap down planes and Quinjets in preparation]
STEVE: Is this a submarine?
BRUCE: Really? They wanted me in a submerged, pressurized metal container?
[The two both move closer to the edge of the Helicarrier. Four huge lift fans mounted on the sides starts to lift into the air as the ship takes flight. Steve watches in awe while Bruce just smiles.]
BRUCE: Oh, no. This is much worse.
[The doors part and we enter the bridge of the ship. A flurry of activity, dozens of agents sit in front of their viewscreens. Agent Hill shouts instructions to leave. The camera turns to Nick Fury who is at the command chair.]
HILL: We're at lock, sir.
FURY: Good. Let's vanish.
[The Helicarrier rises high into the heavens. Suddenly the entire ship is covered in reflecting mirrors, which then camouflages in the sky. Steve and Banner walk through the glorious, gleaming bridge]
FURY: Gentlemen. [Steve gives Fury 10 bucks, referring to his earlier statement about never being surprised again. Fury walks over Banner and extends his hand. Banner, reluctantly shakes it.] Doctor, thank you for coming.
BRUCE: Thanks for asking nicely. So, uh... how long am I staying?
FURY: Once we get our hands on the Tesseract, you're in the clear.
BRUCE: Where are you with that? [Nick Fury turns to Agent Coulson to explain, while Natasha eyes an image of Clint Barton on a computer screen.]
COULSON: We're sweeping every wirelessly accessible camera on the planet. Cellphones, laptops. If it's connected to a satellite, it's eyes and ears for us.
NATASHA: That's still not gonna find them in time.
BRUCE: You have to narrow the field. How many spectrometers do you have access to?
FURY: How many are there?
BRUCE: Call every lab you know, tell them to put the spectrometers on the roof and calibrate them for gamma rays. I'll rough out a tracking algorithm based on cluster recognition. At least we could rule out a few places. Do you have somewhere for me to work?
FURY: Agent Romanoff, would you show Dr. Banner to his laboratory, please. [Natasha nods and walks off, leading Banner down the hall.]
NATASHA: You're gonna love it, Doc. We got all the toys.
[Back in the underground lab, Selvig and several scientists work around the CMS device. Clint walks in, holding a tablet.]
SELVIG: Put it over there! [To Clint] Where did you find all these people?
CLINT: SHIELD has not shortage of enemies, Doctor. [He holds up a screen showing information on Iridium]. Is this the stuff you need?
SELVIG: Yeah, iridium. It's found in meteorites, it forms anti-protons. It's very hard to get hold of.
CLINT: Especially if SHIELD knows you need it.
SELVIG: Well, I didn't know! [Sees Loki coming] Hey! The Tesseract is showing me so much. It's more than just knowledge, it's... truth.
LOKI: I know. What did it show you, Agent Barton?
CLINT: My next target.
LOKI: Tell me what you need.
CLINT: I'll need a distraction. [Grabs his bow] And an eyeball.
[That night in the Helicarrier bridge. As they are waiting to locate Loki using satellite facial recognition, Coulson is standing with Steve.]
COULSON: I mean, if it's not too much trouble.
STEVE: No, no. It's fine.
COULSON: It's a vintage set. It took me a couple of years to collect them all. Near mint, slight foxing around the edges, but...
AGENT JASPER SITWELL: We got a hit. Sixty-seven percent match. Weight, cross match, seventy-nine percent.
AGENT PHIL COULSON: Location?
SITWELL: Stuttgart, Germany. 28, Konigstrasse. He's not exactly hiding.
FURY: Captain, you're up. [Steve nods. Leaves.]
[Outside the Stuttgart Museum, night. Loki is standing in front of the museum, dressed in 21st Century attire with his scepter disguised as a cane. He walks up to the entrance of the gala.]
[Inside the Stuttgart Museum. A lavished gala with an orchestra playing is interrupted as the head doctor walks up to the mic.]
[Inside Helicarrier where Steve's locker is. Steve walks into the locker room. As he approaches to the steel cabinet, the doors already reveal the updated Captain America uniform, along with the famous shield. He stands in silence]
[Outside the museum. German guards stand in their positions. One of them is standing on tip of the roof, scoping. He then hears a sound. He looks down. One of his guards is shot with an arrow. He raises his gun. He is shot dead by an arrow. Falls down. Barton and his crew arrive at the doors of the locked science building. Barton looks at the retinal scanner. He pulls out a SHIELD eye scanner instrument.]
[Inside the gala, Loki looks from above the museum and descends down to where the head doctor is. As he makes it down and near the stage, he flips his cane the other end. The guard there notices him, pulls out his gun, but Loki clubs his head in. Chaos erupts. Guests begin to leave the museum. Loki grabs the doctor and flips him over onto a marble table of the mythological creatures bilchsteim. Loki pulls out an optical torture device. He plunges down the doctor's eye. The doctor twists in pain.]
[Outside the museum. Suddenly from Barton's instrument, a holographic eye of the head doctor appears and the image of the doctor appears on screen. The doors to the facility open. Barton walks in and finds in a cabinet, a glass thermos with a cylinder of iridium. As the crowd runs away, Loki slowly walks out and materializes in his gold armor and helmet. The police arrive and with no hesitation, he blasts the cars, flipping them over and over.]
LOKI: Kneel before me. [The crowd ignores him. Three more Loki's appear, surrounding and blocking the crowd from escaping.] I said KNEEL! [While the crowd quietly kneels, Loki embraces out his arms with a wide smile] Is not this simpler? Is this not your natural state? It's the unspoken truth of humanity, that you crave subjugation. The bright lure of freedom diminishes your life's joy in a mad scramble for power, for identity. You were made to be ruled. In the end, you will always kneel.
ELDER GERMAN MAN: [As the words resonate to the kneeling crowd, an elder German man refuses to kneel and stands, heroic.] Not to men like you.
LOKI: There are no men like me.
ELDER GERMAN MAN: There are always men like you.
LOKI: Look to your elder, people. Let him be an example. [As Loki is about to execute the man with his scepter as the light glows blue. Right as the energy beam shoots out, Captain America arrives, diving in just in time to block the blast with his shield, and knocking down Loki]
CAPTAIN AMERICA: You know, the last time I was in Germany and saw a man standing above everybody else, we ended up disagreeing.
LOKI: [Standing up] The soldier. A man out of time.
CAPTAIN AMERICA: I'm not the one who's out of time.
[From above Captain America, the Quinjet arrives. A machine gun is pointed towards Loki, while Natasha speaks from inside the aircraft]
NATASHA: Loki, drop the weapon and stand down.
[Like greased lightning, Loki sends a blast of blue at the Quinjet. Natasha maneuvers it just in time, giving Cap the time to throw his shield at Loki. They both began to duke it out. Loki flings Cap to the ground, and then Cap throws his shield, but Loki swats it away. As Cap is knocked down by Loki, the scepter is pointed to Cap's helmet]
LOKI: Kneel.
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Not today! [Cap flips and knocks him out with his leg. Loki grabs him and flips him over]
NATASHA: This guy's all over the place.
[Suddenly AC/DC's "Shoot to Thrill" overdrives to the Quinjets speakers]
IRON MAN: Agent Romanoff, did you miss me? [Both Cap and Loki look up at the sky. Tony flies over in his Iron Man suit and blasts Loki right back to the ground. Iron Man touches down. He stands up and pulls out every piece of weaponry the suit has.] Make your move, Reindeer Games.
[Loki puts up his hands and surrenders. His armour materializes away]
IRON MAN: Good move.
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Mr. Stark.
IRON MAN: Captain.
INT. QUINJET - NIGHT
[Natasha watches the skies. THUNDER. Coming out of nowhere. Fury speaks over her headset.]
NICK FURY (V.O.): Said anything?
NATASHA: Not a word.
NICK FURY (V.O.): Just get him here. We're low on time.
[With Loki tied up and cuffed to his seat, Tony and Steve watch from a distance, whispering.]
STEVE: I don't like it.
Tony Stark: What? Rock of Ages giving up so easily?
STEVE: I don't remember it being ever that easy. This guy packs a wallop.
Tony Stark: Still, you are pretty spry, for an older fellow. What's your thing? Pilates?
STEVE: What?
Tony Stark: It's like calisthenics. You might have missed a couple things, you know, during your time as a Capsicle.
[Steve looks at Tony, finally meeting his ego match.]
STEVE: Fury didn't tell me he was calling you in.
Tony Stark: Yeah, there's a lot of things Fury doesn't tell you.
[THUNDER and LIGHTNING nearly hit the jet, making it shake violently.]
NATASHA: Where's this coming from?
[Thunder RUMBLES overhead. Loki stares out the window intently.]
STEVE: What's the matter? Scared of a little lightning?
LOKI: I'm not overly fond of what follows.
[OUTSIDE THE JET A BLINDING LIGHT hits the jet. Not a light. A King. THE MIGHTY THOR. Thor OPENS the ramp and grabs Loki by the throat and flies out. Steve and Tony are left dumbstruck. Tony puts the IRON MAN helmet on.]
IRON MAN: Now there's that guy.
NATASHA: Another Asgardian?
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Think the guy's a friendly?
IRON MAN: Doesn't matter. If he frees Loki or kills him, the Tesseract's lost. Tony turns and gets ready to jump off the jet to chase after Thor.
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Stark, we need a plan of attack!
IRON MAN: I have a plan. Attack.
[IRON MAN jumps out of the jet and chases after Thor. Cap grabs a parachute to follow.]
NATASHA: I'd sit this one out, Cap.
CAPTAIN AMERICA: I don't see how I can.
NATASHA: These guys come from legends, they're basically gods.
CAPTAIN AMERICA: There's only one God, ma'am. And I'm pretty sure he doesn't dress like that.
[Cap JUMPS OUT of the jet.]
[Somewhere out in the European mountains, Thor throws Loki into the side of the mountain. He raises the mighty hammer, MJLNIR. He looks down at his brother, who he thought to be dead and is angry to see him alive in this fashion.]
THOR: Where is the Tesseract?
LOKI: (LAUGHS) I missed you too.
THOR: Do I look to be in a gaming mood?!
LOKI: Oh, you should thank me. With the Bifrost gone how much dark energy did the Allfather have to muster to conjure you here? Your precious Earth.
[Thor drops MJLNIR, causing the mountain to quake. He picks up Loki. His brother. Although Thor is pissed for what he has done, a family is everything to a man or god.]
THOR: I thought you died.
LOKI: Did you mourn?
THOR: We all did. Our father...
LOKI: Your father. He did tell you my true parentage, did he not? Thor lets go Loki, who walks away from Thor, causing an even bigger wedge between them.
THOR: We were raised together, we played together, we fought together. Do you remember none of that?
LOKI: (TURNS AROUND) I remember a shadow. Living in the shade of your greatness. I remember you tossing me into an abyss. I was and should be king!
THOR: So you take the world I love as recompense for your imagined slights. No, the Earth is under my protection, Loki.
LOKI: (LAUGHS) And you're doing a marvelous job with that. The humans slaughter each other in droves, while you idly threat. I mean to rule them. And why should I not?
THOR: You think yourself above them.
LOKI: Well, yes.
THOR: Then you miss the truth of ruling, brother. Throne would suit you ill.
[Angrily, Loki shoves his brother to the side. He walks back up to the ledge. Turns around.]
LOKI: I've seen worlds you've never known about! I have grown, Odinson, in my exile! I have seen the true power of the Tesseract, and when I wield it...
THOR: Who showed you this power? Who controls the would-be-king?
LOKI: I am a king!
THOR: Not here! You give up the Tesseract! You give up this poisonous dream! You come home.
LOKI: I don't have it. You need the cube to bring me home, but I've sent it off. I know not where.
[Mjlnir flies back to his grasp.]
THOR: You listen well, brother. I...
[Thor is knocked off the mountain by Iron Man who tackles him in mid-flight.]
LOKI: I'm listening.
EXT. FOREST - CONTINUOUS
[THOR and IRON MAN CRASH into the forest. Thor rolls himself up. IRON MAN is still standing, but keeps his distance. The helmet opens up.]
THOR: Do not touch me again!
Tony Stark: Then don't take my stuff.
THOR: You have no idea what you're dealing with.
Tony Stark: Shakespeare in the park? Doth mother know you weareth her drapes?
THOR: This is beyond you, metal man. Loki will face Asgardian justice!
Tony Stark: He gives up the Cube, he's all yours. Until then, stay out of my way... tourist.
The IRON MAN helmet clamps up and he walks away. In one quick move, Thor pulls Mjlnir, throws it, and KNOCKS IRON MAN clear across into a tree.
[INSIDE THE SUIT]
Tony Stark: Okay.
[From the mountain side, Loki watches in amusement. Thor raises his hand. Mjlnir flies back to his hand. Thor SWINGS the hammer, summoning a ray of energy. IRON MAN stands up and from his HAND BOOSTERS, a BLAST of ENERGY KNOCKS the MIGHTY AVENGER on his ass. IRON MAN flies back up and knocks Thor into a tree.] Right back at you, bitch! [Thor, kneeling on the ground, pulls Mjlnir to his hand, raises it to the skies and pulls in LIGHTING and THUNDER! Thor points the hammer at IRON MAN and the outpouring of bolts lighting increases in intensity. IRON MAN falls back.]
[INSIDE THE SUIT]
JARVIS: Power at 400% capacity.
Tony Stark: How about that?
[IRON MAN FIRES AWAY FROM HIS HAND BOOSTERS, pushing Thor to his knees. Like two gunslingers ready to draw, both Thor and IRON MAN fly towards each other and meet in the middle and ascend up.]
EXT. SKY - NIGHT
[The two battle. IRON MAN grasps THOR, elbowing him and SMASHING him into the side of a mountain. THOR LEAPS off the mountain and takes IRON MAN with him.]
EXT. FOREST - CONTINUOUS
[THOR and IRON MAN crash right back down, smashing down every tree possible. IRON MAN YANKS Thor right up. Thor grabs both HANDS BOOSTERS and begins to CRUSH them. Tony quickly CHARGES as much energy as he can and SHOOTS ENERGY in Thor's face. Thor FALLS back, losing his stance. IRON MAN HEADBUTTS Thor, with his gold-titanium alloy helmet. Thor... HEADBUTTS him with his fuckin' head and actually sends IRON MAN across the forest. IRON MAN boosters up and flies back at Thor, grabbing him by the arm and cape and SWINGS him into another tree. Thor looks up, ready. Thor runs with all his patience out the window. IRON MAN SWINGS and MISSES, giving Thor the momentum to grab him, lift him and SMASH him down hard. Thor summons back Mjlnir to his hand. Just as he's about to put the hammer down, IRON MAN uses his HAND BOOSTERS to SKID across the ground and trip Thor over. Standing up, Thor looks for him, but from behind him, IRON MAN CRASHES into his back. Thor stands facing IRON MAN. Ready to pounce... CAPTAIN AMERICA'S shield RICOCHETS off both Thor and IRON MAN, stopping them. They look up and see CAPTAIN AMERICA standing on top of a fallen tree with the shield back in hand.]
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Hey! That's enough! (comes down; looks at Thor) Now, I don't know what you plan on doing here.
THOR: I've come here to put an end to Loki's schemes!
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Then prove it! Put the hammer down.
IRON MAN: Um, yeah, no! Bad call! He loves his hammer!
[THOR BACKHANDS IRON MAN LIKE A PIMP WITH MJLNIR. Thor, losing all tolerance with this SENTENTIAL OF LIBERTY, raises the hammer.]
THOR: [to Cap] You want me to put the hammer down?
[THOR LEAPS HIGH INTO THE AIR, RAISING THAT FUCKING HAMMER. CAPTAIN AMERICA CROUCHES DOWN and HOLDS UP HIS SHIELD. THOR brings that hammer down onto the shield and a MASSIVE IMPLOSION OF LIGHT reacts to the vibranium shield creating a MASSIVE SHOCKWAVE THAT BLOWS UP ANYTHING STANDING WITHIN A MILE. IRON MAN stands up, looking around like `holy shit.' Lying right next to him is Cap, who never takes his eye off Thor. Thor looks at both men.]
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Are we done here?
[THOR, CAPTAIN AMERICA AND IRON MAN STAND THERE.]
INT. HELICARRIER HALLWAY - NIGHT
[DOZENS of SHIELD POLICE escort Loki, who is in handcuffs, smiling. As they pass the HELICARRIER LAB, Banner stops working on the CHITAURI SCEPTER and looks up. Loki eyes him as he walks, nodding and smiling. BANNER rubs his head.]
INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION - NIGHT
[Loki is now free from his cuffs and is contained in a LARGE GLASS CELL held by HYDRAULIC RIGS. Fury walks up the control panel of the cell.]
NICK FURY: In case it's unclear. You try to escape. You so much as scratch that glass.
[Fury presses a button which OPENS UP a HATCH underneath Loki's cell. Loki peers as much as he can from the glass. Without seeing, the sounds of GUSTING WIND would make man shit his pants. Not a god, though.]
NICK FURY: Thirty thousand feet, straight down in a steel trap. You get how that works?!
[Fury closes the hatch. Points at Loki.]
NICK FURY: Ant.
[Then points at the button which would drop Loki into the steel trap.]
NICK FURY: Boot.
LOKI: (SMIRKING) It's an impressive cage. Not built, I think, for me.
NICK FURY: Built for something a lot stronger than you.
LOKI: Oh, I've heard.
[Loki looks into the camera.]
INT. BRIEFING ROOM - CONTINUOUS
[The others watch on the monitor Loki getting interrogated. Banner looks at the monitor, intently.]
INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION - CONTINUOUS
LOKI: The mindless beast, makes play he's still a man. How desperate are you, that you call upon such lost creatures to defend you?
NICK FURY: How desperate am I? You threaten my world with war. You steal a force you can't hope to control. You talk about peace and you kill `cause it's fun. You have made me very desperate. You might not be glad that you did.
LOKI: Ooh. It burns you to come so close. To have the Tesseract, to have power, unlimited power. And for what? A warm light for all mankind to share, and then to be reminded what real power is.
NICK FURY: (SMILING) Well, you let me know if Real Power wants a magazine or something.
[Fury walks off leaving Loki in his glass cell. Loki looks back at the camera, smirking.]
INT. BRIEFING ROOM - CONTINUOUS
[Steve watches until the monitor goes black. Thor, who didn't even look, just listened, stands there, torn apart. They all just stand there in stunned SILENCE. Finally...]
BANNER: He really grows on you, doesn't he?
STEVE: Loki's gonna drag this out. So, Thor, what's his play?
THOR: (COMING TOO) He has an army called the Chitauri. They're not of Asgard or any world known. He means to lead them against your people. They will win him the earth. In return, I suspect, for the Tesseract.
STEVE: (SERIOUSLY) An army? From outer space?
BANNER: So he's building another portal. That's what he needs Erik Selvig for.
THOR: Selvig?
BANNER: He's an astrophysicist.
THOR: He's a friend.
NATASHA: Loki has him under some kind of spell, along with one of ours.
STEVE: I wanna know why Loki let us take him. He's not leading an army from here.
BANNER: I don't think we should be focusing on Loki. That guy's brain is a bag full of cats, you could smell crazy on him.
THOR: Have care how you speak. Loki is beyond reason, but he is of Asgard, and he's my brother.
NATASHA: He killed eighty people in two days.
THOR: He's adopted.
BANNER: I think it's about the mechanics. Iridium, what did they need the Iridium for?
Tony Stark: It's a stabilizing agent. (walks in with Coulson; to COULSON) I'll fly you there. Keep the love alive. Means the portal won't collapse on itself, like it did at SHIELD.
TONY (CONT'D) (TO THOR): No hard feelings, Point Break. You've got a mean swing. (referring to the Iridium) Also, it means the portal can open as wide, and stay open as long, as Loki wants. (TO CREW) Uh, raise the mid-mast, ship the top sails. That man is playing GALAGA! Thought we wouldn't notice. But we did. (covering his eye, looks AROUND) How does Fury do this?
AGENT MARIA HILL: He turns.
[Tony looks around the monitors and places a BUTTON SIZE HACKING IMPLANT under Fury's desk, without anyone noticing.]
Tony Stark: Well, that sounds exhausting. The rest of the raw materials, Agent Barton can get his hands on pretty easily. Only major component he still needs is a power source. A high energy density, something to kick start the cube.
AGENT MARIA HILL: When did you become an expert in thermonuclear astrophysics?
Tony Stark: Last night. The packet, Selvig's notes, the Extraction Theory papers. Am I the only one who did the reading?
STEVE: Does Loki need any particular kind of power source?
BANNER: He's got to heat the cube to a hundred and twenty million Kelvin just to break through the Coulomb barrier.
Tony Stark: Unless, Selvig has figured out how to stabilize the quantum tunneling effect.
BANNER: Well, if he could do that he could achieve Heavy Ion Fusion at any reactor on the planet.
Tony Stark: Finally, someone who speaks English.
STEVE: Is that what just happened?
[Tony and Banner shake hands. A glimmer in their eyes shines as the mutual respect for each other shows.]
TONY : It's good to meet you, Dr. Banner. Your work on anti-electron collisions is unparalleled. And I'm a huge fan of the way you lose control and turn into an enormous green rage monster.
BANNER: (LOOKS DOWN) Thanks.
NICK FURY: (WALKING IN) Dr. Banner is only here to track the cube. I was hoping you might join him.
STEVE: Let's start with that stick of his. It may be magical, but it works an awful lot like a HYDRA weapon.
NICK FURY: I don't know about that, but it is powered by the cube. And I'd like to know how Loki used it to turn two of the sharpest men I know into his personal flying monkeys.
THOR: Monkeys? I do not understand.
STEVE: I do! I understood that reference.
[Tony rolls his eyes, while Cap looks proud of himself.]
Tony Stark: Shall we play, doctor?
BANNER: Let's play some.
[As Banner and Tony walk out, the GALAGA PLAYER turns ever so discreetly, watches as everyone else disperses and goes back to playing.]
INT. BANNER'S LAB - NIGHT (LATER)
[Banner continuously scans with a gamma ray detection scanner on the scepter for radiation. Tony looks at his monitors, shifting and solving as many algorithms and equations.]
BANNER: The gamma readings are definitely consistent with Selvig's reports on the Tesseract. But it's gonna take weeks to process.
Tony Stark: If we bypass their mainframe and direct a reroute to the Homer cluster, we can clock this around six hundred teraflops.
BANNER: All I packed was a toothbrush.
Tony Stark: (SMILES) You know, you should come by STARK TOWER sometime. Top ten floors, all R&D. You'd love it, it's candy land.
BANNER: Thanks, but the last time I was in New York I kind of broke...Harlem.
Tony Stark: Well, I promise a stress free environment. No tension. No surprises.
[Suddenly, Tony pokes Banner with a MINIATURE ELECTRICAL PROD. Steve walks in on them, pissed at Tony.]
BANNER: OW!
[Tony looks at Banner closely.]
STEVE: Hey!
Tony Stark: Nothing?
STEVE: Are you nuts?
Tony Stark: You really have got a lid on it, haven't you? What's your secret? Mellow jazz? Bongo drums? Huge bag of weed?
STEVE: Is everything a joke to you?
Tony Stark: Funny things are.
STEVE: Threatening the safety of everyone on this ship isn't funny. No offense, Doctor.
BANNER: No, it's alright. I wouldn't have come aboard if I couldn't handle pointy things.
Tony Stark: You're tiptoeing, big man. You need to strut.
STEVE: And you need to focus on the problem, Mr. Stark.
Tony Stark: You think I'm not? Why did Fury call us and why now? Why not before? What isn't he telling us? I can't do the equation unless I have all the variables.
STEVE: You think Fury's hiding something?
Tony Stark: He's a spy. Captain, he's the spy. His secrets have secrets. (points to Banner) It's bugging him too, isn't it?
BANNER: (bobbling the words) Uh...I just wanna finish my work here and...
STEVE: Doctor?
[A beat.]
BANNER: 'A warm light for all mankind, Loki's jab at Fury about the cube.
STEVE: I heard it.
BANNER: (pointing at Tony) Well, I think that was meant for you. Even if Barton didn't post that all over the news.
STEVE: Stark Tower? That big ugly (Tony gives him a look) ...building in New York?
BANNER: It's powered by Stark Reactors, self-sustaining energy source. That building will run itself for what, a year?
Tony Stark: That's just the prototype. I'm kind of the only name in clean energy right now.
BANNER: (referring to Tony) So, why didn't SHIELD bring him in on the Tesseract project? I mean, what are they doing in the energy business in the first place?
Tony Stark: I should probably look into that once my decryption programmer finishes breaking into all of SHIELD's secure files.
STEVE: (taken aback by that) I'm sorry, did you say...?
Tony Stark: Jarvis has been running it since I hit the bridge. In a few hours we'll know every dirty secret SHIELD has ever tried to hide. (holds out a bag of blueberries) Blueberry?
STEVE: Yet you're confused about why they didn't want you around?
Tony Stark: An intelligence organization that fears intelligence? Historically, not possible.
STEVE: I think Loki's trying to wind us up. This is a man who means to start a war, and if don't stay focused, he'll succeed. We have orders, we should follow them.
Tony Stark: Following is not really my style.
STEVE: (SMILING) And you're all about style, aren't you?
Tony Stark: (a nerve hit) Of the people in this room, which one is; A. wearing a spangly outfit, and B. not of use?
BANNER: Steve, tell me none of this smells a little funky to you?
[Steve takes in the possibility, but as an obedient soldier, shakes it off.]
STEVE: Just find the cube.
[Steve walks out of the lab. Still torn apart by the possibility, he walks away, towards the HULL of the ship.]
BACK IN THE LAB
Tony Stark: That's the guy my dad never shut up about? Wondering if they shouldn't have kept him on ice.
BANNER: The guy's not wrong about Loki. He does have the jump on us.
Tony Stark: What he's got is an ACME dynamite kit. It's gonna blow up in his face, and I'm gonna be there when it does.
BANNER: And I'll read all about it.
Tony Stark: Uh-huh. Or you'll be suiting up like the rest of us.
BANNER: Ah, see. I don't get a suit of armor. I'm exposed, like a nerve. It's a nightmare.
Tony Stark: You know, I've got a cluster of shrapnel, trying every second to crawl its way into my heart. (points at the MINI-ARC REACTOR in his chest) This stops it. This little circle of light. It's part of me now, not just armor. It's a... terrible privilege.
BANNER: But you can control it.
Tony Stark: Because I learned how.
BANNER: It's different.
[Banner tries to read the computer screen, but Tony slides the data aside with his finger so the two can see face-to-face.]
Tony Stark: Hey, I've read all about your accident. That much gamma exposure should have killed you.
BANNER: So you're saying that the Hulk... the other guy... saved my life? That's nice. It's a nice sentiment. Saved it for what?
Tony Stark: (A BEAT) I guess we'll find out.
[Banner and Stark get back to work at their respective computers.]
BANNER: You might not like that.
Tony Stark: You just might.
INT. HULL HANGAR, SECURE STORAGE 10-C - NIGHT
[Steve, with all his MIGHT, slides the HEAVY IRON door and STEALTHILY walks in. SECURE STORAGE 10-C is a large warehouse, filled with METAL CRATES stacked. Steve looks up, seeing another level. He LEAPS up high and holds onto the catwalk railing. Steve continues to move forward.]
INT. VAN - NIGHT
[Inside this particular van, Selvig and a few other SOLDIERS are driving inside a long tunnel. With the CMS device inside, Selvig carefully picks up the small cylinder shape IRIDIUM with metal prongs and lightly places it in a SLOT within the CMS. THE CMS ACCEPTS IT. Selvig looks at it, devilishly smiling.]
INT. BRIEFING ROOM - NIGHT
[On a SHIELD monitor is a photo and record of JANE FOSTER. Thor looks at her, remembering. With him is Agent Coulson.]
AGENT PHIL COULSON: As soon as Loki took the doctor we moved Jane Foster. We've got an excellent observatory in Tromso. She was asked to consult there very suddenly yesterday. Handsome fee, private plane, very remote. She'll be safe.
THOR: Thank you. It's no accident Loki taking Erik Selvig; I dread what he plans for him once he's done. Erik is a good man.
AGENT PHIL COULSON: He talks about you a lot. You changed his life. You changed everything around here.
THOR: They were better as they were. We pretend on Asgard that we're more advanced, but we... we come here battling like BILGESNIPE.
AGENT PHIL COULSON: Like what?
THOR: BILGESNIPE? You know; huge, scaly, big antlers. You don't have those?
AGENT PHIL COULSON: Don't think so.
THOR: They are repulsive, and they trample everything in their path.
[Thor walks over to the side of the ship and looks out the window, lamenting about what had happened and what may come.]
THOR: When I first came to Earth, Loki's rage followed me here and your people paid the price. And now again. In my youth I courted war.
NICK FURY (O.S.): War hasn't started yet. (WALKING IN) You think you can make Loki tell us what the Tesseract is?
THOR: I do not know. Loki's mind is far afield, it's not just power he craves, it's vengeance upon me. There's no pain that would prize his need from him.
NICK FURY: A lot of guys think that, until the pain stops.
THOR: What are you asking me to do?
NICK FURY: I'm asking, what are you prepared to do?
THOR: Loki is a prisoner.
NICK FURY: Then why do I feel like he's the only person on this boat that wants to be here?
[Thor doesn't answer.]
INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION - NIGHT
[Loki walks back and forth inside his glass cell. Suddenly, he stops.]
LOKI: There's not many people that can sneak up on me. (turns to see NATASHA STANDING THERE)
NATASHA: But you figured I'd come.
LOKI: After. After whatever tortures Fury can concoct, you would appear as a friend, as a balm. And I would cooperate.
NATASHA: I wanna know what you've done to Agent Barton.
LOKI: I'd say I've expanded his mind.
NATASHA: And once you've won. Once you're king of the mountain. What happens to his mind?
LOKI: Is this love, Agent Romanoff?
NATASHA: Love is for children. I owe him a debt.
LOKI: (SITTING DOWN) Tell me.
NATASHA: (she pulls up a chair as WELL) Before I worked for SHIELD, I uh...well, I made a name for myself. I have a very specific skillset. I didn't care who I used it for, or on. I got on SHIELD's radar in a bad way. Agent Barton was sent to kill me, he made a different call.
LOKI: And what will you do if I vow to spare him?
NATASHA: Not let you out.
LOKI: (LAUGHS) Ah, no. But I like this. Your world in the balance, and you bargain for one man?
NATASHA: Regimes fall every day. I tend not to weep over that, I'm Russian... or was.
LOKI: What is it you want?
NATASHA: It's really not that complicated. I've got red in my ledger, I'd like to wipe it out.
LOKI: Can you? Can you wipe out that much red? DRAKOV'S daughter? SO PAULO? THE HOSPITAL FIRE? Barton told me everything. Your ledger is dripping, it's gushing red, and you think saving a man no more virtuous than yourself will change anything? (STANDING; ANGRY) This is the basest sentimentality. This is a child at prayer... PATHETIC!
INTERCUTS - Tony and Banner continuously work at their monitors.
LOKI (V.O.): You lie and kill in the service of liars and killers.
[Agent Hill checks every VIEWSCREEN in the bridge. Fury oversees.]
LOKI (V.O.) You pretend to be separate, to have your own code, something that makes up for the horrors. But they are a part of you, and they will never go away!
[Steve opens a STEEL crate. Angry, he looks behind him and looks back into the crate. THE CRATE IS FILLED WITH AN ARRAY OF HYDRA WEAPONS.]
INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION - NIGHT
[Loki SLAMS his cell, making Natasha FLINCH.]
LOKI: I won't touch Barton. Not until I make him kill you! Slowly. Intimately. In every way he knows you fear! And when he'll wake just long enough to see his good work, and when he screams, I'll split his skull! This is my bargain, you mewling quim!
[NATASHA turns around, walks away from Loki, disgusted.]
NATASHA: (QUIETLY; DISTRAUGHT) You're a monster.
LOKI: (LAUGHS) No, you brought the monster.
NATASHA: (turns back around; poised) So, Banner... that's your play.
LOKI: (STAGGERED) What?
NATASHA: (ON EARPIECE) Loki means to unleash the Hulk. Keep Banner in the lab, I'm on my way. Send Thor as well. (TO LOKI) Thank you for your cooperation.
[Natasha quickly walks out, leaving Loki frozen.]
INT. BANNER'S LAB - MORNING
[Fury walks in SURPRISED to see Tony and Banner stop working on the scepter.]
NICK FURY: (ANGRY) What are you doing, Mr. Stark?
Tony Stark: Uh...kind of been wondering the same thing about you.
NICK FURY: You're supposed to be locating the Tesseract.
BANNER: We are. The model's locked and we're sweeping for the signature now. When we get a hit, we'll have the location within half a mile.
Tony Stark: And you'll get your cube back, no muss, no fuss. (suddenly his monitor show a collection of SECRET FILES) What is PHASE 2?
[Suddenly, Steve drops a HYDRA ASSAULT RIFLE on the table causing Fury, Banner and Tony to turn around. Cap looks pissed.]
STEVE: PHASE 2 is SHIELD uses the cube to make weapons. (TO TONY) Sorry, the computer was moving a little slow.
NICK FURY: (trying to explain) Rogers, we gathered everything related to the Tesseract. This does not mean that we're...
Tony Stark: I'm sorry, Nick.
[Tony moves the computer screen towards Fury which shows plans of THE WEAPONS.]
Tony Stark: What were you lying?
STEVE: I was wrong, director. The world hasn't changed a bit.
[At that moment, Thor and Natasha walk into the lab. Natasha keeps her eyes right on Banner. Banner looks at her, PISSED.]
BANNER: Did you know about this?
NATASHA: You wanna think about removing yourself from this environment, doctor?
BANNER: I was in Calcutta, I was pretty well removed.
NATASHA: Loki's manipulating you.
BANNER: And you've been doing what exactly?
NATASHA: You didn't come here because I bat my eyelashes at you.
BANNER: Yes, and I'm not leaving because suddenly you get a little twitchy. I'd like to know why SHIELD is using the Tesseract to build weapons of mass destruction.
NICK FURY: Because of him. (pointing at Thor)
THOR: (STUNNED) Me?
NICK FURY: Last year, Earth had a visitor from another planet who had a grudge match that leveled a small town. We learned that not only are we not alone, but we are hopelessly, hilariously, outgunned.
THOR: My people want nothing but peace with your planet.
NICK FURY: But you're not the only people out there, are you? And, you're not the only threat. The world's filling up with people who can't be matched, they can't be controlled.
STEVE: Like you controlled the cube?
THOR: Your work with the Tesseract is what drew Loki to it, and his allies. It is the signal to all the realms that the earth is ready for a higher form of war.
STEVE: A higher form?
NICK FURY: You forced our hand. We had to come up with something.
Tony Stark: Nuclear deterrent. `Cause that always calms everything right down.
NICK FURY: Remind me again how you made your fortune, Stark?
STEVE: I'm sure if he still made weapons, Stark would be neck deep...
Tony Stark: Wait! Wait! Hold on! How is this now about me?
STEVE: I'm sorry, isn't everything?
THOR: I thought humans were more evolved than this.
NICK FURY: Excuse me, did WE come to YOUR planet and blow stuff up?
THOR: Did you always give your champions such mistrust?
NATASHA: Are you all really that naive? S.H.I.E.L.D monitors potential threats.
BANNER: Captain America is on the threat potential watch list?
Tony Stark: (to Steve) You're on that list? Are you above or below angry bees?
STEVE: I swear to God, Stark, one more crack...
Tony Stark: Threatening! I feel threatened!
[As the "team" argues, they don't realize the BLUE GEM on Loki's scepter is glowing brightly.]
INT. AIRCRAFT CARRIER - DAY
Outside the HELICARRIER, a lone carrier slowly hovers over the ship.
SHIELD BASE VOICE: 661 Bravo, please relay your pass code. What is your hull, over?
BARTON: Arms to ammunition, over.
[Inside, BARTON and his crew suit up and arm themselves. Barton pulls out his hi-tech bow and arrows.]
INT. BANNER'S LAB - MORNING
[Back in the lab, the egos of these people keep rubbing off each other and at any moment, the shit will hit the fan.]
THOR: You speak of control, yet you court chaos.
BANNER: It's his M.O., isn't it? I mean, what are we, a team? No, no, no. We're a chemical mixture that makes chaos. We're... we're a time-bomb.
NICK FURY: You need to step away.
Tony Stark: (puts his arm around Steve) Why shouldn't the guy let off a little steam?
STEVE: (pushes Tony off)You know damn well why! Back off!
Tony Stark: (comes face-to-face with Cap) Oh, I'm starting to want you to make me.
STEVE: Big man in a suit of armor. Take that off, what are you?
Tony Stark: Genius, billionaire, playboy, philanthropist.
STEVE: I know guys with none of that worth ten of you. Yeah, I've seen the footage. The only thing you really fight for is yourself. You're not the guy to make the sacrifice play, to lay down on a wire and let the other guy crawl over you.
Tony Stark: I think I would just cut the wire.
STEVE: (SMILING) Always a way out... You know, you may not be a threat, but you better stop pretending to be a hero.
Tony Stark: (that did it) A hero? Like you? You're a lab rat, Rogers. Everything special about you came out of a bottle!
OUTSIDE THE HELICARRIER
[The ramp of the carrier opens. The carrier maneuvers next to one of the large turbine engines. Barton stands at the base, holding out his bow. He pulls out a GRENADE TIPPED ARROW. He points right at the engine. Then...Barton moves his AIM and points the arrow about a hundred feet from the engine. He releases. The arrow flies out,but then SHARPLY heads for the engine. The arrow is punctured onto the engine. It has a visible timer which is COUNTING DOWN.]
INT. BANNER'S LAB - MORNING
[Back in the lab, Steve puffs up his chest at Tony, who just stands there, unmoving.]
STEVE: Put on the suit, let's go a few rounds.
[Thor laughs at them.]
THOR: You people are so petty... and tiny.
[Tony rubs his head. Moves away from Cap.]
BANNER: Yeah, this is a team
NICK FURY: Agent Romanoff, would you escort Dr.Banner back to his
BANNER: Where? You rented my room.
NICK FURY: The cell was just in case
BANNER: In case you needed to kill me, but you can't! I know! I tried! (A BEAT) I got low. I didn't see an end, so I put a bullet in my mouth and the other guy spit it out! So I moved on. I focused on helping other people. I was good, until you dragged me back into this freak show and put everyone here at risk!
[Banner slowly gets upset as he looks at Romanoff, who gets ]unnerved.]
BANNER: You wanna know my secret, Agent Romanoff? You wanna know how I stay calm?
[BLACK WIDOW and Fury have their hands down to grab their guns.]
STEVE: Doctor Banner... put down the scepter.
[BANNER LOOKS DOWN AND IS SHOCKED TO SEE HE'S HOLDING LOKI'S SCEPTER. The computer beeps. They all turn to it.]
Tony Stark: Got it.
[Banner puts down the scepter and walks over to the computer.]
BANNER: Sorry, kids. You don't get to see my little party trick after all.
THOR: Located the Tesseract?
Tony Stark: I can get there faster.
STEVE: Look, all of us
THOR: The Tesseract belongs on Asgard, no human is a match for it.
[Tony turns to leave, but Steve stops him.]
STEVE: You're not going alone!
Tony Stark: You gonna stop me?
STEVE: Put on the suit, let's find out.
Tony Stark: I'm not afraid to hit an old man.
STEVE: Put on the suit.
[At that moment Banner who's looking at the monitor notices something about the Tesseract.]
BANNER: Oh, my God!
OUTSIDE THE HELICARRIER:
[Barton PULLS THE TRIGGER ON HIS BOW. The arrow then EXPLODES THE ENGINE RIGHT OFF THE HELICARRIER!]
INT. BANNER'S LAB - MORNING
[Everyone is thrown in every direction. Steve, Fury, Thor and Tony are thrown across while Natasha and Banner are down in the lower equipment room. Steve looks up at Tony.]
STEVE: Put on the suit!
Tony Stark: Yep!
[Steve helps Tony up and out of the lab. Fury sits up, clutching his ribs. He puts on his EARPIECE.]
NICK FURY: Hill?!
INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY
[PANDEMONIUM ERUPTS. Emergency alarms set off, fire extinguishers activate near surrounding fires and every agent is in a spinning scramble for their positions and armaments. Agent Hill keeps the bridge as calm as possible.]
AGENT MARIA HILL: Turn up that engine! Number 3 engine is: down! Can we get a run in? (runs over to GALAGA PLAYER) Talk to me.
GALAGA PLAYER: (points to monitor) Turbine's loose. Mostly intact, but it's impossible to get out there and make repairs while we're in the air.
AGENT MARIA HILL: We lose one more engine, we won't be. Somebody's got to get inside and patch that engine.
INT. BANNER'S LAB - MORNING
NICK FURY: Stark! You copy that?!
TONY (V.O.): I'm on it!
NICK FURY: Coulson! Initiate official lock down in the detention section then get to the armory! Move out!
INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY
[Agent Coulson runs out of the bridge.]
INT. LOWER EQUIPMENT ROOM, CARRIER - MORNING
[Natasha looks over to Banner, who is breathing heavy, having landed hard. He is gripping the grated floor to maintain control, but his eyes are green, his face intense.]
NATASHA: (quietly, to herself) I'm okay. We're okay, right?
EXT. HELICARRIER DECK - DAY
[Barton leads his men into the air ducts of the ship. They rappel down into a corridor.]
BARTON: Get that engine down! Detention! Get him through the dark! Come with me.
[Two of his men follow him. They head towards the bridge.]
EXT. ND HALLWAY, CARRIER - MORNING
[Tony and Cap run through a dim, debris filled hall.]
Tony Stark: Find engine three. I'll meet you there.
[Cap peels off as Tony approaches a tech room. Inside, Tony's IRON MAN suit stands waiting, lit above in all its glory.]
INT. LOWER EQUIPMENT ROOM, CARRIER
[FOCUS ON BANNER'S FACE in the dim light as he struggles to suppress the rage, but his face is growing, changing slowly. Natasha is pulling herself painfully free, talking to Banner.]
NATASHA: Doctor... Bruce, you gotta fight it. This is just what Loki wants. We're gonna be okay. Listen to me.
[Two approaching SHIELD soldiers arrive to check on her. She furiously WAVES them away. They bolt out of there.]
NATASHA: We're gonna be okay. Right? I swear on my life I will get you out of this, you will walk away, and never
BANNER: Your life?
[His voice has the change in it -- the bitter amusement is morphing to a growled threat. Another explosion rocks the carrier -- and he turns to look at her, transforming just as the lights go out.]
NATASHA: (PLEADING) Bruce.
[Banner suddenly starts transforming into the HULK and gives Natasha one last knowing look. Natasha STRUGGLES FREE of the rubble. She stops. The HULK, sensing her, turns his head and puts on a face of a disturbing monster. Natasha JOLTS up the stairs with the HULK chasing after her. Natasha maneuvers like a black widow should. She rolls under a turbine, starts to crawl within the maze of pipes. The HULK pulls them out from above the catwalk. Natasha falls through under the catwalks and quickly and stealthily escapes. The HULK lets out a ROAR OF RAGE unlike anything. PRIMAL. Not human.]
INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION - DAY
[Loki looks up, smiling mischievously.]
INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY
[Fury RUNS in and sees the chaos has increased even more than before. The HELMSMAN is in complete disarray.]
NICK FURY: Bring the carrier inwards and head south. Take us to the water.
HELMSMAN: Why water? Navigations recalibrated after the engine failure.
NICK FURY: Is the sun coming up?!
HELMSMAN: Yes, sir.
NICK FURY: Then put it on the left! Get us over water! One more turbine goes down and we drop.
EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE - DAY
[CAPTAIN AMERICA, pushing with all his strength the door to portside, sees SHIELD tech in full oxygen masks shoot fire extinguishers and cover from sparks -- largely unable to do anything. Engine 3 is totally dead. A LARGE CHUNK of the port side in TORN OFF.]
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Stark, I'm here!
Tony Stark: Good. See what we got.
[Tony flies in his IRON MAN suit and gets close to the damaged engine.]
INSIDE THE SUIT
[Tony observes within his viewscreen at the damaged engine and its layouts.]
Tony Stark: I gotta get this super conducting cooling system back online before I can access the rotors and work on dislodging the debris.
EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE - DAY
[IRON MAN begins PULLING on the stuck rotors. Looks over at Steve.]
IRON MAN: I need you to get to that engine control panel and tell me which relays are in overload position.
[IRON MAN flies into giant cooling conductors. CAPTAIN AMERICA JUMPS over to the other side of the broken railing. CAPTAIN AMERICA gets himself to the control panel and opens it up. For a man who grew up as a YANK, what the fuck is this!]
IRON MAN: What's it look like in there?
CAPTAIN AMERICA: It seems to run on some form of electricity.
IRON MAN: Well, you're not wrong.
INT. LOWER EQUIPMENT ROOM, CARRIER - DAY
[Natasha continuously crawls under the catwalk. She stops. Then...BOOM. BOOM. BOOM. The room vibrates. Rhythmically. Natasha pulls out her gun and slowly walks out onto the catwalk and spins. ...and then a ROAR. THE HULK. Natasha FIRES a shot into a liquid nitrogen pipe that hits the hulk in face. The HULK SMASHES THE SHIT OUT OF IT. Natasha begins to run through the maze of corridors. The sound the monster is coming. Finally, she reaches and a long corridor. As she runs, behind her, the HULK TEARS up the hallway, coming at her. Natasha turns to see, but the HULK SLAPS her into the wall, SMASHING INTO THE GROUND. The HULK marks his territory. Natasha looks up. A fear she has never felt begins to seep out. The HULK raises his hand and IS KNOCKED OFF HIS FEET BY THOR WHO TACKLES HIM INTO the next room.]
INT. HELICARRIER AIRCRAFT PORT - CONTINUOUS
[Both Thor and HULK roll across the floor. Every person runs the hell out. Thor looks up at this magnificent beast. The HULK stands up and moving like a boxer, wants Thor to make his move. The HULK makes his move. SWING AND A MISS. Thor swings his massive hand and almost knocks HULK off his feet. HULK keeps swinging and missing, pissing him off. Finally, he brings down his arm, but Thor grabs it and wraps around it.]
THOR: We are not your enemies, Banner! Try to think!
[HULK lifts his arm up, to Thor's surprise, and he SENDS HIM FLYING AS HE PUNCHES THOR'S FACE WITH HIS FIST.]
EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE - DAY
[IRON MAN continuously BLASTS broken debris off the turbine engine. It's bad, but still fixable.]
CAPTAIN AMERICA (V.O.): The relays are intact. What's our next move?
Tony Stark: Even if I clear the rotors, this thing won't re-engage without a jump. I'm gonna have to get in there and push.
EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE - DAY
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Well if that thing gets up to speed, you'll get shredded!
Tony Stark: Then stay in the control unit and reverse polarity long enough to disengage mag
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Speak English!
Tony Stark: See that red lever? It'll slow the rotors down long enough for me to get out. Stand by it, wait for my word.
[CAPTAIN AMERICA looks over at the other side where he was. He sees the red lever and JUMPS towards it.]
INT. HELICARRIER AIRCRAFT PORT - DAY
[Thor CRASHES into another stack of crates. As he raises his head, he feels something on his lips. BLOOD. As he swipes it off, the ROAR of the HULK is not too far. Thor extends his hand out. The ROAR gets LOUDER and CLOSER. Thor focuses. His hand strains toward mid-air. His eyes tight in concentration. The HULK runs right at him. At the last second, MJLNIR flies into his hand and Thor UPPERCUTS HULK, WHO CRASHES INTO A FIGHTER JET. HULK stands up, shaking his head like `what the fuck just happened.' He SHAKES it off and ANGRILY rips off the TAIL of the jet, TORQUES HIS BODY LIKE A GREEK DISCUS THROWER AND... HURLS THE MASSIVE PLATE AT THOR. Thor SLIDES and DUCKS under the tail. Jumping up, he throws Mjlnir with all his strength, knocking the HULK head over heels. HULK falls down, hammer in hand. HE tries to lift it, but can't. Mjlnir rests atop his hand. Struggle as he may, HULK wraps his hand around the hammer. The hammer doesn't move. To no avail -- he strains with all his might, SCREAMS from the effort, BELLOWING. Thor jumps up again, KNEEING HULK in the face. Thor grabs his hammer, jumps on him, using the hammer as a lock for his CHOKEHOLD. Hulk tries to pull him off.]
INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY
[Fury and Agent Hill look over their monitors.]
NICK FURY: We need a full evac on the lower hangar bay.
[Agent Hill nods. She leaves to exit out, but a SLIDING GRENADE appears.]
AGENT MARIA HILL: GRENADE!
[The grenade goes off, sending her down the steps. Fury FIRES a shot at the open entrance. He moves over behind the side of the entrance. A handful of Barton's men enter. Watchful, ready, waiting... Fury steps out, his GUN drawn. A SHOOT OUT and HAND-TO-HAND ensues, but Fury is unable to stop one of them, which is why he is shot in the head by Agent Hill.]
INT. HELICARRIER ARMORY SECTION - DAY
[Agent Coulson walks up the armory door. He places his head into a FACIAL RECOGNITION SCANNER. Walks into the room.]
AGENT JASPER SITWELL (V.O.): We got perimeter breach! Hostiles are in SHIELD gear. Hold on to every junction.
INT. HELICARRIER AIRCRAFT PORT - DAY
[HULK CRASHES from under the floor, sending Thor on his ass. HULK grabs him by the neck.]
INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY
[A gunfight opens up. AGENTS exchange fire with brutally efficient tactical soldiers.]
AGENT JASPER SITWELL (V.O.): We have the HULK and Thor on research level 4. Levels 2 and 3 are dark.
AGENT MARIA HILL: Sir, the Hulk will tear this place apart!
NICK FURY: Get his attention.
AGENT MARIA HILL: (on her EARPIECE) Escort 0-6, proceed to Wishbone and engage hostile. Don't get too close.
ESCORT 0-6 PILOT (V.O.): Copy.
EXT. SKY - DAY
[ESCORT 0-6'S jet BANKS to the right, heading towards the shuttle.]
EXT. OUTSIDE SHUTTLE
[ESCORT 606 PILOT slowly makes his way in. sees the action going between Thor and the HULK.]
ESCORT 606 PILOT: Target acquired. Target engaged. (pulls the trigger; fires guns at HULK)
[A SHOWER OF BULLETS SPRAY THE HULK EVERYWHERE. Thor ducks for cover. The HULK turns around, letting out his PRIMAL ROAR. He jumps up, TAKES A RUNNING START AND LEAPS ESCORT 606 PILOT LOOKS LIKE HE TOOK A SHIT.]
ESCORT 606 PILOT: TARGET ANGRY! TARGET ANGRY!
[HULK LANDS ON THE JET'S NOSE. THE JET SPINS WILDLY. As the HULK tears it apart, ESCORT 606 PILOT pulls his ejection seat, but HOLD THE FUCKIN' DOOR! THE HULK CATCHES HIM, WAVES HIM AROUND AND THEN THROWS HIM AWAY. ESCORT 606 PILOT pulls his parachute. THE JET EXPLODES. THE HULK PLUMMETS TO EARTH, ROARING HIS SWAN SONG.]
EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE - DAY
[IRON MAN laser cuts a big piece of broken metal. He then JUMPS on it, relieving the rotors. On the other side, BARTON'S men enter the port side. CAPTAIN AMERICA looks down, pondering if they are help. Evidently not as they begin SHOOTING at him and throwing grenades. CAPTAIN AMERICA jumps to the other railing and down with Barton's men. He begins to TAKE THEM DOWN, even goes as far as throwing one off. A few more enter, FIRING. CAPTAIN AMERICA grabs a big fuckin' gun and jumps back up to his position, firing down at them.]
INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY
[The gunfight has gone down, but more of Barton's men enter and are taken by Fury, who is confused as to why they keep coming.]
NICK FURY: They are not getting through here, so what the hell
[Suddenly, Barton LOSES an arrow down to the bridge and EXPLODES critical spots. Barton releases a multi-tipped arrow towards Fury, but instead hits his command desk, right above a USB OUTLETS. Fury FIRES at Barton, but is already gone. The arrow then self- activates and inserts itself into the outlets, hacking every single monitor and main frame. The hacking causes Engine 1 to shut off. Suddenly, the HELICARRIER begins to DANGEROUSLY TILT to one side.]
AGENT JASPER SITWELL (O.S.): Sir, we've lost all power in Engine 1.
NICK FURY: It's Barton. He took out our systems. He's headed for the detention level. Does anybody copy?
INT. LOWER EQUIPMENT ROOM, CARRIER - DAY
[Still shaken by the HULK ordeal, Natasha sits there, rocking back and forth, after crying for a while. Summoning back all her coolness, she touches her EARPIECE.]
NATASHA: This is Agent Romanoff. I copy.
[Natasha SPRINGS up and runs for Barton.]
EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE - DAY
[IRON MAN begins to push the rotor using BOOSTERS from his boots.]
NICK FURY (V.O.): Stark, we're losing altitude.
IRON MAN: Yeah. Noticed.
[The rotors start propelling faster and faster as IRON MAN'S BOOSTERS get more and more bright. On the other side, CAPTAIN AMERICA continuously shoots at Barton's men. Blinking at the wrong moment, CAPTAIN AMERICA loses the upper hand and SLIDES off the railing, but grabs onto a LOOSE CABLE.]
INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION - DAY
[Thor runs into the detention section where he finds Loki, escaping.]
THOR: NO!
[Thor CHARGES at his brother. Loki walks up to him and CROUCHES down to attack. THOR ONLY GOES THROUGH HIM. The false Loki dissipates into nothingness. THE REAL LOKI comes out from behind the cell door, which closes on THOR, locking him up. Loki smiles.]
LOKI: Are you ever not going to fall for that?
INT. LOWER EQUIPMENT ROOM, CARRIER - DAY
[Barton walks alone down the catwalk. In a lightning fast move, Barton nocks an arrow, and points it at NATASHA. A hand-to-hand fight ensues. Natasha CRAWLS her way around Barton, making Barton to drop his bow, but pulls out a KNIFE on her.]
INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION - DAY
[Thor, in a fit of anger, SLAMS MJLNIR onto the glass cell. To his surprise, the cell door only CRACKS, but violently SHAKES the ship. Loki stands there in caution, as does his GUARDING SOLDIER.]
LOKI: (smiles; walks over to the CONTROL PANEL) The humans think us immortal. Should we test that?
[Suddenly, GUARDING SOLDIER falls down like a tree. AGENT COULSON stands there, holding PHASE 2 WEAPON PROTOTYPE.]
AGENT PHIL COULSON: Move away, please.
[Loki moves away from the switch.]
AGENT PHIL COULSON: You like this? We started working on the prototype after you sent THE DESTROYER. Even I don't know what it does. Do you wanna find out?
[A LOUD GASP. AGENT COULSON IS IMPALED THROUGH THE HEART. THE REAL LOKI STANDS BEHIND COULSON.]
THOR: Nooo!
[Loki sends Agent Coulson against the wall. Agent Coulson slumps down, breathing fast. Loki makes his way to the control switch. He gives his brother one last look. Thor looks at him, hopeful. Loki opens the HATCH. Thor still hopes. LOKI HITS THE BUTTON AND DROPS THOR OUT OF THE SHIP.]
INT. LOWER EQUIPMENT ROOM, CARRIER - DAY
[Barton and Natasha continue attacking each other. Natasha KICKBOXES Barton's face. Feeling that, Barton takes a SWING at her, but she grabs his arm, TWISTING it. BARTON WRITHES IN PAIN. Using his other arm, he tosses the knife over and begins to SLASH at Natasha. She dodges every move, but finds herself in a LOCK HOLD with him. As he forces the knife down, she BITES his wrist. Barton lets go of the knife. Natasha WRAPS her legs around his neck, FLIPS him over and arm LOCKS him. She SLAMS his head into a pipes rail. Barton goes down, hard. He looks up her, almost coming to his real senses.]
BARTON: Natasha
[Natasha COLDCOCKS him. Barton is out.]
EXT. SKY
[Thor, trapped in the glass cage, BOUNCES off the JUMBLING cell pod. As it draws closer to land, Thor tries to swing at glass, but misses. Land draws closer. In a final attempt before crashing, Thor positions himself onto the glass door and LEAPFROGS just as the cage is about to hit the ground. The cell CRASHES into the shore as Thor crashes out into the meadow.]
INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION - DAY
[Loki has no remorse as he looks down. He closes the hatch and proceeds to leave. A WEAK VOICE.]
AGENT PHIL COULSON: You're gonna lose.
LOKI: (TURNING) Am I?
AGENT PHIL COULSON: It's in your nature.
LOKI: Your heroes are scattered, your floating fortress falls from the sky...where is my disadvantage?
AGENT PHIL COULSON: You lack conviction.
LOKI: I don't think I
[AGENT COULSON SHOOTS LOKI WITH HIS PHASE 2 WEAPON PROTOTYPE, CAUSING LOKI TO BE BLOWN THROUGH THE WALL BEHIND HIM.]
AGENT PHIL COULSON: So that's what it does.
INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY
[Back in the bridge, Fury sees on his VIEWSCREEN that the hatch has been open. Knowing Agent Coulson was sent there, he goes to.]
EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE - DAY
[IRON MAN continuously SPINS Engine 3, giving it all he has. THE ROTORS ARE PROPELLING PROPERLY AND FAST. The HELICARRIER LEVELS itself.]
INSIDE THE SUIT
Tony Stark: Cap, I need the lever!
STEVE (V.O.): I need a minute here!
Tony Stark: Lever. Now!
[Tony lets go of the rotors. They spin by themselves. Tony is then caught in one. He is now fucked. IRON MAN slips into the rotors, getting chewed up.]
EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE - DAY
[CAPTAIN AMERICA CLIMBS up the loose cable and reaches the railing. BARTON'S MAN opens fire once more. CAPTAIN AMERICA pulls himself up and finally PULLS the lever. A VENT opens up from Engine 3. IRON MAN falls out, but the suit heavily damaged, hardly keeping him up. IRON MAN heads for Cap. BARTON'S MAN turns his AIM to IRON MAN, who TACKLES him into the wall. IRON MAN rolls over, tired. Cap lets out a sigh of relief.]
OUTSIDE THE HELICARRIER
[The carrier that brought Barton and his team now leaves, taking Loki and his scepter. The carrier flies into the distance.]
INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION - DAY
[Fury runs in finding Agent Coulson still alive, barely.]
AGENT PHIL COULSON: Sorry, boss. They got rabbeted.
NICK FURY: Just stay awake. EYES ON ME!
AGENT PHIL COULSON: No. I'm clocked out here.
NICK FURY: Not an option.
AGENT PHIL COULSON: It's okay, boss. This was never going to work... if they didn't have something... to
[Agent Coulson looks away. Sighs his last breath. Nick Fury looks on grimly at Coulson. The medical team arrives.]
INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY
NICK FURY (V.O.): Agent Coulson is down.
[Agent Hill is being treated for a gash on her head, listens on her headset, standing up.]
SHIELD AGENT (V.O.): Paramedics are on their way.
NICK FURY (V.O.): They're here.
INT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE - DAY
[Steve and Tony listen in as well.]
NICK FURY (V.O.): They called it.
INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - LATER
[Fury gathers Tony and Steve back into the briefing room, everyone there has a look as if in a daze. A look of numb shock is shown on their devastated faces.]
NICK FURY: These were in Phil Coulson's jacket. Guess he never did get you to sign them.
[Fury throws Coulson's CAPTAIN AMERICA TRADING CARDS on the table towards Steve. Steve picks them up, STAINED WITH BLOOD.]
NICK FURY: We're dead in the air up here. Our communications, location of the cube, Banner, Thor. I got nothing for you. Lost my one good eye. Maybe I had that coming. (A BEAT) Yes, we were going to build an arsenal with the Tesseract. I never put all my chips on that number though, because I was playing something even riskier. There was an idea, Stark knows this, called THE AVENGERS INITIATIVE. The idea was to bring together a group of remarkable people, see if they could become something more. See if they could work together when we needed them to, to fight the battles that we never could. Phil Coulson died still believing in that idea, in heroes.
[Tony gets up and walks off, not wanting to hear it anymore.]
NICK FURY: Well, it's an old fashioned notion.
EXT. MEADOW - DAY
[Thor walks out far into the meadow. He looks down. MJLNIR.]
INT. ABANDONED BUILDING - DAY
[Banner wakes up, in human form. He looks around and sees he is IN A PILE OF RUBBLE and looks up at the OPEN CEILING HE CRASHED IN. AND IS COMPLETELY NAKED. A SECURITY GUARD stands there, amazed.]
SECURITY GUARD: You fell out of the sky.
BANNER (COMING TO): Did I hurt anybody?
SECURITY GUARD: There's nobody around here to get hurt. You did scare the hell out of some pigeons though.
BANNER: Lucky.
SECURITY GUARD: Or just good aim. You were awake when you fell.
BANNER: You saw?
SECURITY GUARD: The whole thing, right through the ceiling. Big and green and buck ass nude. Here
[He throws Banner a pair of big pants. Banner pulls on his pants.]
SECURITY GUARD: I didn't think those would fit you until you shrunk down to a regular size fella.
BANNER: Thank you.
SECURITY GUARD: Are you an alien?
BANNER: What?
SECURITY GUARD: From outer space, an alien?
BANNER: No.
SECURITY GUARD: Well then, son, you've got a condition.
INT. HELICARRIER MEDICAL ROOM - DAY
[Barton is strapped down. Natasha watches over him as Barton tries to shake off Loki's mind control.]
NATASHA: Clint, you're gonna be alright.
CLINT BARTON: You know that? Is that what you know? I got...I gotta go in though. I gotta flush him out.
NATASHA: We don't have that long, it's gonna take time.
CLINT BARTON: I don't understand. Have you ever had someone take your brain and play? Pull you out and send something else in? Do you know what it's like to be unmade?
NATASHA: You know that I do.
CLINT BARTON: Why am I back? How did you get him out?
NATASHA: Cognitive recalibration. I hit you really hard in the head.
CLINT BARTON: Thanks. (Natasha unfastens the RESTRAINTS) Tasha, how many agents?
NATASHA: Don't. Don't do that to yourself, Clint. This is Loki. This is monsters and magic and nothing we were ever trained for.
CLINT BARTON: Loki, he got away?
NATASHA: Yeah. I don't suppose you know where?
CLINT BARTON: I didn't need to know. I didn't ask. He's gonna make his play soon though. Today.
NATASHA: We gotta stop him.
CLINT BARTON: Yeah? Who's we?
NATASHA: I don't know. Whoever's left.
CLINT BARTON: Well, if I put an arrow in Loki's eyesocket, I'd sleep better I suppose.
NATASHA: Now you sound like you.
[Natasha sits next to her partner and friend.]
CLINT BARTON: But you don't. You're a spy, not a soldier. Now you want to wade into a war. Why? What did Loki do to you?
NATASHA: He didn't, I just (SHE PAUSES)
CLINT BARTON: Natasha.
NATASHA: I've been compromised. I got red in my ledger. I'd like to wipe it out.
INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION - DAY
[Tony look at the empty cell container. He stands not saying a word. Steve walks in.]
STEVE: Was he married?
Tony Stark: No. There was a uh...cellist, I think.
STEVE: I'm sorry. He seemed like a good man.
Tony Stark: He was an idiot.
STEVE: Why? For believing?
Tony Stark: For taking on Loki alone.
STEVE: He was doing his job.
Tony Stark: He was out of his league. He should have waited. He should have
STEVE: Sometimes there isn't a way out, Tony.
Tony Stark: (WALKS AWAY) Right. How did that work for him?
STEVE: Is this the first time you've lost a soldier?
Tony Stark: (turns around sharply) WE ARE NOT SOLDIERS! I am not marching to Fury's fife!
STEVE: Neither am I! He's got the same blood on his hands as Loki does. Right now we've got to put that aside and get this done. Now Loki needs a power source, if we can put together a list
Tony Stark: (looking at the blood stained wall) He made it personal.
STEVE: That's not the point.
Tony Stark: That is the point. That's Loki's point. He hit us all right where we live. Why?
STEVE: To tear us apart.
Tony Stark: He had to conquer his greed, but he knows he has to take us out to win, right? That's what he wants. He wants to beat us and he wants to be seen doing it. He wants an audience.
STEVE: Right, I caught his act at Stuttgart.
Tony Stark: Yeah. That's just a preview, this is opening night. Loki's a full-tilt diva. He wants flowers, he wants parades, he wants a monument built in the skies with his name plastered (PAUSE) Sonofabitch!
EXT. STARK TOWER - DAY
[Selvig works around the CMS device that has already been set- upon the rooftop of Tony's tower.]
INT. HELICARRIER MEDICAL ROOM - DAY
[Steve walks in full uniform. Natasha looks at him, unprepared.]
STEVE: Time to go.
NATASHA: Go where?
STEVE: I'll tell you on the way. Can you fly one of those jets?
[Barton walks out of the restroom. Looks at Cap.]
CLINT BARTON: I can.
[Steve looks at Natasha and she nods her head to confirm Barton's on their side.]
STEVE: You got a suit?
CLINT BARTON: Yeah.
STEVE: Then suit up.
MONTAGE
[KRAKAKABOOM! A blinding BOLT OF LIGHTNING strikes down from above, colliding on MJLNIR. The explosion is massive. THE MIGHTY THOR.]
[CAPTAIN AMERICA pulls on his HELMET and SHIELD.]
[Tony WELDS his IRON MAN helmet. LIGHT slips down over IRON MAN's eye holes.]
[BLACK WIDOW attaches a GLOVE GAUNTLET with her rounds on her wrist. A BLUE LIGHT CHARGES.]
[HAWKEYE slips on his QUIVER of arrows.]
EXT/INT. QUINJET - DAY
[Cap, Widow and Hawkeye walk towards and into the QUINJET. A YOUNG SHIELD PILOT looks and stands in their way.]
YOUNG SHIELD PILOT: You are not authorized to be here
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Son... just don't.
INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY
[Fury looks the window of the ship, contemplating. Agent Hill walks up to him, knowing.]
AGENT MARIA HILL: Sir.
NICK FURY: Agent Hill?
AGENT MARIA HILL: Those cards, they were in Coulson's locker, not in his jacket.
NICK FURY: They needed the push. (holding Coulson's cards)
[A LOUD NOISE SCREECHES. Fury looks out to see IRON MAN flying off as well as the QUINJET.]
NICK FURY: They found it. Get our communications back up, whatever you have to do. I want eyes on everything.
AGENT MARIA HILL: Yes, sir.
EXT. NEW YORK CITY SKYLINE - STARK TOWER - DAY
[IRON MAN arrives at STARK TOWER where Selvig, ACTIVATES the CMS device, holding the Tesseract.]
JARVIS: Sir, I took off the arc reactor. The device is already self-sustained.
Tony Stark: Shut it down, Dr. Selvig.
SELVIG: It's too late! It can't stop now. He wants to show us something! A new universe.
IRON MAN: Okay.
[IRON MAN aims his hands toward the CMS and FIRES. The energy from his boosters SHATTERS with a deafening CRACK! Selvig falls backwards. DOWN BELOW, CITIZENS OF NEW YORK look up at STARK TOWER. IRON MAN stares in disbelief at the CMS ... unharmed.]
JARVIS: The barrier is pure energy. It's unbreachable. The Mark VII is not ready to be deployed.
Tony Stark: Skip the spinning rims. We're on the clock.
[TONY lands his SUIT and goes through the gauntlet and unsuits him. LOKI looks up at him, smiling. They proceed to walk into the penthouse.]
INT. STARK PENTHOUSE - DAY
[Loki walks in, holding the scepter. Tony casually walks down the steps, towards the bar.]
LOKI: Please tell me you're going to appeal to my humanity.
Tony Stark: Uh...actually, I'm planning to threaten you.
LOKI: You should have left your armor on for that.
Tony Stark: Yeah, it's seen a bit of mileage. You've got the blue stick of destiny. Would you like a drink?
LOKI: Stalling me won't change anything.
Tony Stark: No, no, no! Threatening. No drink? You sure? I'm having one.
LOKI: The CHITAURI are coming, nothing will change that. What have I to fear?
Tony Stark: THE AVENGERS. (Loki looks at him, confused) It's what we call ourselves, sort of like a team. `EARTH'S MIGHTIEST HEROES' type of thing.
LOKI: Yes, I've met them.
Tony Stark: (SMILING) Yeah, takes us a while to get any traction, I'll give you that one. But, let's do a head count here. Your brother, the demigod; a super soldier, a living legend who kind of lives up to the legend; a man with breath-taking anger management issues; a couple of master assassins, and you, big fella, you've managed to piss off every single one of them.
LOKI: That was the plan.
Tony Stark: Not a great plan. When they come, and they will, they'll come for you.
[From underneath the bar table, Tony pulls on COLANTOTTE BRACELETS, a honing device.]
LOKI: I have an army.
Tony Stark: We have a HULK.
LOKI: I thought the beast had wandered off.
Tony Stark: You're missing the point. There's no throne, there is no version of this, where you come out on top. Maybe your army comes and maybe it's too much for us, but it's all on you. Because if we can't protect the Earth, you can be damned well sure we'll avenge it.
LOKI: (slowly walks up to him; raising the scepter) How will your friends have time for me,when they're so busy fighting you?
[Loki TAPS Tony on the chest with his scepter. PING! Nothing. Confused, Loki tires again. PING! NOTHING.]
LOKI: It should work.
Tony Stark: Well, performance issues. You know? Not uncommon. One out of five
[In anger, Loki GRABS Tony by the throat and FLINGS him across the room.]
Tony Stark: Jarvis. Anytime now.
[Loki grabs Tony by the throat again.]
LOKI: You will all fall before me.
[LOKI THROWS TONY OUT THE WINDOW. Tony FREEFALLS down the tower. From behind Loki, an elevator opens and a RED POD SHOOTS out. The pod LASER SIGNALS the COLANTOTTE BRACELETS on Tony. The POD begins to TRANSFORM into the MARK VII suit. It LATCHES onto Tony. IRON MAN. The suit FLIES up before he hits the ground or the gazing people. Loki looks up, angry.]
IRON MAN: And there's one other person you pissed off! His name was Phil.
[Loki raises the scepter. IRON MAN FIRES at Loki, sending him on his ass.]
EXT. STARK TOWER - DAY
[Selvig looks up at the sky. The Tesseract's energy BEAMS into the sky. The beam then forms a VORTEX, which then opens up ANOTHER PORTAL.]
EXT. VASTNESS OF SPACE
[A hole in space rips open, and from it, the CHITAURI ARMY SPILLS out in FLYING CHARIOTS, carrying ENERGY RIFLES with a bayonet on the end.]
INSIDE THE SUIT
Tony Stark: Right. Army.
[IRON MAN flies up towards the portal. From his shoulders, a miniature multiple rocket launcher, pops out and FIRES. Like the JERICHO MISSILE, several targets are taken down unlike no missile. It's useless. THOUSANDS OF CHITAURI FLY OUT. IRON MAN flies towards the city.]
EXT. MANHATTAN - DAY
[The CHITAURI UNLEASH. New Yorkers fill the streets, staring at the fire fight in the distance. BOOM!!! The CHITAURI unleashes BLASTS as it goes, blowing up cars, setting storefronts aflame. AN EXPLOSION RIPS OUT THE WINDOWS OF THE TOP CORNER OF BUILDINGS. FLAME AND STONE RAIN DOWN. A DOMINO-EFFECT OF EXPLOSIONS RIPPLING ACROSS THE BRIDGE.]
EXT. STARK TOWER - DAY
[Loki walks onto the balcony as the SOUNDS of the CHITAURI rings out. He admires his soon to be kingdom. THOR LANDS ON THE TOWER. Loki turns to his ENEMY.]
THOR: Loki! Turn off the Tesseract or I'll destroy it!
LOKI: You can't. There is no stopping it. There is only the war!
THOR: So be it.
[Loki and Thor rush at each other. They and their weapons collide. The two battle -- Loki unleashing another pent-up rage and jealousy, Thor having no choice but to defend himself.]
EXT. MANHATTAN - DAY
[SOLDIERS AND COPS have taken positions covering the streets. They see from the sky, IRON MAN leading a trail of CHITAURI towards his tower.]
EXT. SKY - DAY
[The QUINJET BOOMS into the city.]
BLACK WIDOW (V.O.): Stark, we're heading north east. INSIDE THE SUIT
IRON MAN: What, did you stop for drive-thru? Swing up PARK, I'm gonna lay 'em out for you.
EXT. STARK TOWER - DAY
[IRON MAN BANKS around his tower. Sees Thor and Loki still going at it. IRON MAN SWOOPS down the street, causing a CHITAURI to crash. Flying up, IRON MAN puts the following CHITAURI in view of the QUINJET. BLACK WIDOW takes out machine gun and FIRES at the CHITAURI.]
INSIDE THE SUIT
JARVIS: Sir, we have more incoming.
Tony Stark: Fine. Let's keep them occupied.
[IRON MAN heads back to the portal.]
EXT. STARK TOWER - DAY
[Thor and Loki battle savagely. Loki fires ENERGY from the scepter, sending Thor sliding across the floor.]
INT. QUINJET - DAY
[HAWKEYE looks out to his left window, finding a target.]
HAWKEYE: Yeah.
BLACK WIDOW: See them.
[HAWKEYE BANKS the jet towards STARK TOWER. Aims the MINIGUN at Loki. Loki AIMS the scepter at the QUINJET and FIRES A BLAST OF ENERGY. Thor gets to his feet, TACKLING Loki down hard. THE QUINJET is soon caught on fire. HAWKEYE maneuvers one wing of the jet. They SPIN and SLOW. DROPPING OUT OF THE AIR AS IT PASSES OVER SKYSCRAPERS. Then... they SLAM into the street.]
INT. QUINJET - DAY
[With everyone okay, HAWKEYE and BLACK WIDOW unfasten their seatbelts and open the ramp. CAPTAIN AMERICA runs down, followed by HAWKEYE and BLACK WIDOW. Each one has their respected weapons in hand.]
EXT. FOUR WAY STREET - DAY
[The TRIO arrives in the middle of a four-way street. Suddenly, the city LURCHES to a stop. A DEEP, PRIMAL RAGE BELLOWS OUT. With that roar, a SHADOW comes over them.]
EXT. VASTNESS OF SPACE
[From the portal, a FUCKING CHITAURI LEVIATHAN FLIES OUT! Carrying hundreds of SOLDIERS, the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN PASSES OVER the TRIO.]
EXT. BRIDGE STREET - DAY
[They look up, out of their element. From both sides, CHITAURI SOLDIERS CLING OFF and attach themselves to the sides of the buildings, sliding down. Some CRASH into these buildings and begin FIRING from their ENERGY RIFLES at innocent people.]
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Stark, are you seeing this?
INSIDE THE SUIT
Tony Stark: I'm seeing, still working on believing. Where's Banner? Has he shown up yet?
CAPTAIN AMERICA (V.O.): Banner?
Tony Stark: Just keep me posted. Jarvis, find me a soft spot.
[IRON MAN quietly flies behind and parallel with the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN.]
EXT. STARK TOWER - DAY
[Thor holds down Loki's face straight ahead, forcing him to watch the city falling to ash.]
THOR: Look at this! Look around you! You think this madness will end with your rule?
LOKI: (tries to look away) It's too late. It's too late to stop it.
THOR: No. We can. Together.
[Loki looks at his brother, showing a sign of hope. Then... Loki stabs Thor with a small knife. Thor keels over.]
LOKI: Sentiment.
[Thor gets up, KICKS Loki and lifts him into the air. Thor then SLAMS him down, hard. Loki, bleeding, rolls over the edge. Thor looks down. LOKI IS RIDING ON A FLYING CHARIOT. DOZENS of CHITAURI follow his lead.]
EXT. BRIDGE STREET - DAY
[The TRIO runs behind upside taxis. They look up and see Loki taking his band down the street and FIRES at the street IN A CHAIN OF EXPLOSIONS. SMASHING CARS AND HURLING PEOPLE AS IT GOES IT GOES OFF IN ONE FINAL CONFLAGRATION. TERRIFIED PEOPLE running from Loki, looking over their shoulders, coming straight at us. CAPTAIN AMERICA looks down the bridge.]
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Those people need assistance down there.
[CHITAURI SOLDIERS that have landed near them and begin FIRING at them. BLACK WIDOW pulls both pistols and FIRES. Turns to Cap.]
BLACK WIDOW: We got this. It's good. Go!
CAPTAIN AMERICA: (AT HAWKEYE) You think you can hold them off?
HAWKEYE: Captain. (pulls a trigger on his bow; an arrow is mechanically CHOSEN) It would be my genuine pleasure.
[HAWKEYE shoots an ARROW into the creature's head, gaining a few seconds for CAPTAIN AMERICA as he falls down the bridge, followed by an EXPLOSION. Cap races over to the plaza, jumping over dozens of EXPLODING cars. THE FIRST AVENGER RUNS LIKE A FUCKING CHEETAH. HAWKEYE runs over a bus full of people. From the windows, SMALL CHILDREN are held by their parents for HAWKEYE to pull them out to safety. He runs over to the jammed door and JERKILY opens it. People begin to run out. BLACK WIDOW empties out her CLIPS. HAWKEYE fires ARROWS into the ranks of the CHITAURI, hitting his mark each time he shoots.]
BLACK WIDOW: Just like BUDAPEST all over again!
HAWKEYE: You and I remember Budapest very differently.
EXT. MANHATTAN - DAY
[The COPS continuously fire at the flying chariots. It's pretty pointless. A YOUNG COP runs over to his POLICE SERGEANT.]
YOUNG COP: We need to get out! They gotta bring the National Guard!
POLICE SERGEANT: National Guard? Does the army know what's happening here?
YOUNG COP: Do we?
[CAPTAIN AMERICA jumps in front of them. They look up at this ridiculous looking man.]
CAPTAIN AMERICA: I need men in these buildings. There are people inside that can run into the line of fire. You take them through the basement or through the subway. You keep them off the streets. I need a perimeter as far back as 39th.
POLICE SERGEANT: Why the hell should I take orders from you?
[Suddenly, an EXPLOSION comes up from behind Cap. An ENERGY BLAST is blocked by his SHIELD. TWO CHITAURI SOLDIERS attack. The cops watch in shock as CAPTAIN AMERICA FIGHTS them off with ease. The Sergeant turns to his officer.]
POLICE SERGEANT: I need men in those buildings, lead the people down and away from the streets. I need a perimeter as far back as 39th.
EXT. SKYLINE - DAY
[IRON MAN swerves around a building and faces the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN. He pulls out his miniature multiple rocket launcher and FIRES. The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN ROARS in annoyance. The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN turns to him.]
IRON MAN: (TO JARVIS) We got his attention. What the hell is step two?!
[IRON MAN flies away.]
EXT. BRIDGE STREET - DAY
[HAWKEYE TRIPS a CHITAURI SOLDIER and RAMS an arrow down its throat. BLACK WIDOW gets her hands on an ENERGY RIFLE and STICK FIGHTS the hell out of them. CAPTAIN AMERICA joins back in and using his SHIELD, SWAPS and WHACKS oncoming CHITAURI SOLDIERS. It's all too much on them, until Lightning strikes down from the sky, channeling the blast, firing the electricity out at the CHITAURI SOLDIERS around them. They're blasted back in a massive shockwave. The CHITAURI SOLDIERS convulse, drop dead to the ground. THOR TOUCHES DOWN.]
CAPTAIN AMERICA: What's the story upstairs?
THOR: The power surrounding the cube is impenetrable.
IRON MAN (V.O.): Thor is right. We gotta deal with these guys.
BLACK WIDOW: How do we do this?
CAPTAIN AMERICA: As a team.
THOR: I have unfinished business with Loki.
HAWKEYE: Yeah, get in line.
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Save it. Loki's gonna keep this fight focused on us and that's what we need. Without him these things could run wild. We got Stark up top, he's gonna need us
[Just then, BANNER ARRIVES ON A SMALL MOTORBIKE. Getting off, he looks around the city.]
BANNER: So, this all seems horrible.
BLACK WIDOW: I've seen worse.
BANNER: Sorry.
BLACK WIDOW: No. We could use a little worse.
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Stark? We got him.
IRON MAN (V.O.): Banner?
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Just like you said.
INSIDE THE SUIT
Tony Stark: Then tell him to suit up. I'm bringing the party to you.
[IRON MAN comes out from behind a building. The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN follows, impatiently.]
EXT. BRIDGE STREET - DAY
[The rest of the AVENGERS look up, getting ready and standing still.
BLACK WIDOW: I... I don't see how that's a party
[IRON MAN SWOOPS down the street. The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN also swoops down, BARRELING down the street like a FREIGHT TRAIN that keeps building and building its intensity.Banner looks behind. Cap looks at him. Banner begins to walk towards the monster.]
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Dr. Banner. Now might be a really good time for you to get angry.
BANNER: That's my secret, Captain. I'm always angry.
[Banner's body starts to swell and stretch and harden. GREEN SHOOTS THROUGH HIS BODY. THE HULK. Aaaannndddd.........SSSMMMAAASSSHHH!!!! HULK POPS the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN IN THE NOSE. THE CREATURE FLIPS OVER A 360. IRON MAN, in mid-flight, extends his arm out and a ROCKET, ready to shoot. IRON MAN FIRES -- the rocket hits a SOFT SPOT - LARGE CHITAURI LEVIATHAN are BLOWN COMPLETELY AWAY. Real pain from the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN. Other pieces of meat CATCH FIRE and withdraw... SIZZLE as they hit the pavement. CAPTAIN AMERICA raises his SHIELD to block them.]
[From above and on the buildings, the CHITAURI ARMY watches in horror as a group of EARTH'S MIGHTIEST HEROES FIND THEMSELVES UNITED AGAINST A COMMON THREAT. TO FIGHT THE FOES NO SINGLE SUPER HERO COULD WITHSTAND! THE AVENGERS ASSEMBLE!]
EXT. SKY - DAY
[Loki watches below, motionless.]
LOKI: Send the rest.
EXT. VASTNESS OF SPACE
[From the portal, THOUSANDS MORE OF CHITAURI SOLDIERS AND EVEN MORE CHITAURI LEVIATHANS FLY OUT!]
EXT. BRIDGE STREET - DAY
[THE AVENGERS look up. Way out of their fucking element.]
BLACK WIDOW: Guys.
IRON MAN: Call it, Cap.
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Alright, listen up. Until we can close that portal up there, we're gonna use containment. Barton, I want you on that roof, eyes on everything. Call out patterns and strays. Stark, you got the perimeter. Anything gets more than three blocks out, you turn it back or your turn it to ash.
HAWKEYE: Wanna give me a lift?
IRON MAN: Right. Better clench up, LEGOLAS.
[IRON MAN lifts HAWKEYE up to the building.]
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Thor, you've gotta try and bottleneck that portal. Slow them down. You've got the lightning. Light the bastards up. (Thor flies up; to Natasha) You and me, we stay here on the ground, keep the fighting here. And Hulk.SMASH.
[THE HULK SMILES A MOST MAGNIFICENT GRIN AND LEAPS, SOARING HIGH UP INTO THE NEAREST BUILDING, HULK RUNS UP THE WALL HITS SEVERAL CHITAURI SOLDIERS, SNAPPING IN HALF. HE DIVES TOWARDS A BUILDING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE STREET, THROWING THE DEAD CHITAURI SOLDIERS TOWARDS OTHER SOLDIERS. The CHITAURI SOLDIERS fire at him. THE HULK BACKHANDS THEM, SEIZES THEM AND WITH RAW POWER, THROWS THEM DOWN. IN HIS MOST POWERFUL LEAP YET, THE HULK FLIES UP AND IS IN THE MIDDLE OF A FLYING CHARIOT TRAFFIC JAM, TO WHICH HE SMACKS THEM OUT OF ALTITUDE.]
EXT. EMPIRE STATE BUILDING - DAY
[Thor grabs onto the tower. Raises MJLNIR and KRAKAKABOOM! A BLINDING BOLT OF LIGHTNING strikes down from above, colliding on MJLNIR. THOR AIMS THIS MASSIVE SHOCKWAVE TOWARDS THE PORTAL. THOR CHANNELS THE BLAST AND FIRES THE ELECTRICITY OUT AT THE CHITAURI SOLDIERS FLYING OUT OF THE PORTAL. THEY'RE BLASTED BACK IN A MASSIVE SHOCKWAVE. THE CHITAURI SOLDIERS CONVULSE, DROP DEAD TO THE GROUND. HE EVEN RIPS THE SHIT OUT OF A CHITAURI LEVIATHAN, WHICH THEN FUCKING EXPLODES.]
INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY
[Back in the bridge, Fury sees on his VIEWSCREEN the destruction going on in NEW YORK. Agent Hill walks up to him.]
AGENT MARIA HILL: Sir. The council is on.
[OH SHIT. Fury presses his screen.]
EXT. ROOFTOP BUILDING - DAY
[Atop the rooftop, HAWKEYE fires ARROWS into the streaming flow of the CHITAURI RIDERS, hitting his mark each time. Hell, he even AIMS his bow behind him, WITHOUT LOOKING and releases the arrow, EXPLODING a RIDER.]
HAWKEYE: Stark. You got a lot of strings sticking to your tail.
IRON MAN: Just try and keep them off the streets.
HAWKEYE: Well, they can't bank worth a damn. Find a tight corner.
IRON MAN: I will roger that.
[IRON MAN does so and leads towards TIGHT CORNERS and in HAWKEYE'S view, who fires arrow upon and arrow, EXPLODING the CHITAURI RIDERS. IRON MAN keeps leading CHITAURI RIDERS UNDER TUNNELS, THROUGH OPEN PARKING GARAGES. He looks back. None left.]
INSIDE THE SUIT
Tony Stark: Nice call. What else you got?
HAWKEYE (V.O.): Well, Thor's taking on a squadron down on 6th.
Tony Stark: And he didn't invite me?
EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
[We are looking INTO a conference room where office workers sit around a table. But the NOISE has caught one worker's eye, then another, and soon they are all rising, stepping to the window, mesmerized by what lies beyond. WORKERS' POVA CHITAURI LEVIATHAN SWIMS right in front of them.]
EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
[Suddenly, another NOISE catches the worker's attention. THE HULK CRASHES THROUGH THEIR FLOOR. SLASHES HIS THROUGH THE ROOM, POUNDING AWAY AND JUMPS OUT ONTO THE JAW OF THE CHITAURI LEVIATHAN. THE CHITAURI LEVIATHAN BEGINS TO HEAD DOWN, TRYING TO WAVE OFF THE HULK.]
EXT. BRIDGE STREET - DAY
[BLACK WIDOW, using the ENERGY RIFLE, is taken off her feet by a CHITAURI SOLDIER. She TIRESOMELY takes it down by cutting its throat. She grabs the ENERGY RIFLE, turns to attack. Cap stands there, holding his SHIELD. She slumps back, tired.]
BLACK WIDOW: Captain, none of this is gonna mean a damn thing if we don't close that portal.
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Our biggest guns couldn't touch it.
BLACK WIDOW: Well, maybe it's not about guns. (gestures the flying CHARIOTS)
CAPTAIN AMERICA: You wanna get up there, you're gonna need a ride.
BLACK WIDOW: I got a ride. I could use a lift though.
[BLACK WIDOW backs up giving herself a running start. Cap lifts and angles his SHIELD.]
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Are you sure about this?
BLACK WIDOW: Yeah. It's gonna be fun.
[BLACK WIDOW RUNS AT CAPTAIN AMERICA. BLACK WIDOW DOES A PARKOUR MOVE, USING HER FEET TO RUN UP THE CAR AND JUMPS UP ON CAP'S SHIELD, WHO GIVES HER A BOOST WITH THE SHIELD. SHE GRABS ONTO A FLYING CHARIOT.]
[BLACK WIDOW climbs onto the chariot and CUTS the turret shooter's linkage to it. She then JUMPS on the rider and STICKS her knives into his nervous system. She gets him to BANK over a building.]
[IRON MAN arrives and SHOOTS any other CHITAURI RIDERS following her. He makes his way down to CAPTAIN AMERICA, who fights off more CHITAURI SOLDIERS. IRON MAN points his HAND BOOSTERS at his SHIELD. The energy comes off and Cap uses it as a REFLECTION BEAM and takes down nearby CHITAURI.]
[From above them, HAWKEYE sends down remaining arrows. He sends one across the street, taking down a CHITAURI RIDER following IRON MAN.]
[Finally, we have THOR and HULK fight on top the back of the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN, tearing apart and fighting SOLDIERS. HULK BREAKS OFF A MASSIVE PIECE OF ARMOR AND SLAMS IT DOWN ONTO THE SPINE OF THE CHITAURI LEVIATHAN. Summoning all his strength he, THOR RAISES, DRAWING LIGHTNING TO IT FROM ALL SIDES, AND BRINGS IT DOWN WITH A FINAL, TERRIBLE BLOW--]
INT. HISTORY MUSEUM - DAY
[The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN CRASHES into a history museum. DEAD. THOR and HULK stand on the BACK of the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN after bringing it down. They stand still, admiring. HULK PUNCHES THOR WITH HIS ENORMOUS HAND. THOR GOES FLYING. HULK SMIRKS.]
EXT. STARK TOWER - DAY
[SELVIG WAKES UP FROM LOKI MIND CONTROL. He looks around, confused where he is. He looks up at the sky, amazed.]
EXT. BRIDGE STREET - DAY
[Several HUMVEES aim their MOUNTED .50 Cal guns into the sky, FIRING and HITTING CHITAURI RIDERS. CAPTAIN AMERICA fights off a SOLDIER who is pinning him down with its energy rifle. Cap BREAKS ITS LEG. He stands up, picking up his SHIELD.]
HAWKEYE: Captain, the bank on 42nd past MADISON, they caught a lot of civilians there.
CAPTAIN AMERICA: I'm on it.
INT. 42ND BANK - DAY
[Dozens of civilians are gathered in bank. Tension and uncertainty surround them. THREE CHITAURI SOLDIERS oversee them, pointing their weapons at them. One of them charges a BOMB. It BEEPS.]
[CAPTAIN AMERICA jumps through the window and throws his SHIELD at the CHITAURI BOMBER. The TWO CHITAURI SOLDIERS aim their rifles, but Cap heads for cover under a desk, which he KICKS at them.]
[CAPTAIN AMERICA jumps over the desk, HEADLOCKS A SOLDIER, while BACKHANDING another one over the railing. The crowd moves away. A CHITAURI SOLDIER attacks him from behind and RIPS OFF HIS HELMET. The bomb is beeping faster.]
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Everyone! Clear out!
[CAPTAIN AMERICA flips over the SOLDIER, grabs his SHIELD and just as the BOMB is about to GO OFF, CHITAURI BOMBER dives for, trying to stop it, but it GOES OFF, sending CAPTAIN AMERICA through the window, landing very hard on a car. The civilians look up from below. They're okay.]
EXT. OUTSIDE THE BANK - CONTINUOUS
[Cap gets off the car, looks around the city. Destroyed. The police and firemen arrive, pulling out those civilians he saved. A WAITRESS looks back, thankful.]
INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY
[Back in the bridge, Fury sees on his VIEWSCREEN the WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL.]
WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #2: Director Fury, the council has made a decision.
NICK FURY: I recognize the council has made a decision, but given that it's a stupid ass decision, I've elected to ignore it.
WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #1: Director, you're closer than any of our subs, you scramble that jet
NICK FURY: That is the island of Manhattan, Councilman. Until I'm certain my team can't hold it, I will not order a nuclear strike against a civilian population.
WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #1: If we don't hold them in the air, we lose everything.
NICK FURY: I send that bird out, we already have.
[Fury shuts off his viewscreen.]
EXT. MANHATTAN - DAY
[BLACK WIDOW, still driving the chariot with the RIDER, is hit at her side. She looks about, wondering whose ENERGY FIRE it was she looks behind.]
BLACK WIDOW: Oh. You.
[LOKI FOLLOWS IN HOT PURSUIT. They RACE DOWNWARD, trailing between buildings. They RACE MADLY, driving and dodging.]
EXT. ROOFTOP BUILDING - DAY
[HAWKEYE looks at BLACK WIDOW, astonished.]
HAWKEYE: Nat, what are you doing?
BLACK WIDOW (V.O.): Uh... a little help!
[HAWKEYE pulls the trigger twice, nocks an arrow, and points it at Loki, smiling.]
HAWKEYE: I've got him.
[FIRES. THE ARROW STREAKS DOWN THE CITY, STRAIGHT AT THE LOKI'S HEAD SNATCH! LIKE A CAT, LOKI GRABS THE ARROW STRAIGHT OUT OF THE AIR...LOOKS STRAIGHT AT HAWKEYE, SMILING BBOOOOMMM!!! THE ARROW EXPLODES IN LOKI'S FACE, CRASHING INTO THE STARK PENTHOUSE PAD.]
[BLACK WIDOW looks down and building her momentum, she JUMPS of the chariot, lands on top of STARK TOWER, rolling herself to the edge.]
EXT/INT. STARK PENTHOUSE - DAY
[As Loki looks up, shocked at what just happened, THE HULK IS LEAPING UP AND KICKS LOKI, HURTLING TOWARDS THE GLASS WINDOW. He COLLAPSES as he hits the wall. THE HULK jumps in, ready to attack. Loki ROLLS himself up in a flurry of broken glass, STANDING UP TO THE HULK.]
LOKI: ENOUGH! YOU ARE, ALL OF YOU ARE BENEATH ME! I AM A GOD, YOU DULL CREATURE, AND I WILL NOT BE BULLIED
[HULK GRABS LOKI BY THE LEGS AND SMASHES HIM AGAINST THE FLOOR REPEATEDLY AND FINALLY THROWS HIM ASIDE TO THE GROUND, FLATTENING LOKI.]
HULK: PUNY GOD.
[LOKI WHIMPERS IN PAIN.]
EXT. STARK TOWER - DAY
[BLACK WIDOW walks up the CMS machine. Selvig, slumped down, weakened, looks at her desperately. The Tesseract's energy is firing towards the portal, gaining in strength, at the surge of energy moving through the sky.
BLACK WIDOW: Doctor.
SELVIG: Loki's scepter, the energy...the Tesseract can't fight. You can't protect against yourself.
BLACK WIDOW: It's not your fault. You didn't know what you were doing.
SELVIG: Well, actually I think I did. I built in a safety to cut the power source.
BLACK WIDOW: Loki's scepter.
SELVIG: It might be able to close the portal. (Selvig looks down. He sees a GOLD GLEAM) And I'm looking right at it.
EXT. MANHATTAN - DAY
[THOR rides on top of chariot, SMACKING SEVERAL RIDERS with the hammer. As Thor takes the reins, a CHITAURI LEVIATHAN crashes through a building, knocking him down to where Cap is, fighting off SOLDIERS. IRON MAN flies right next to the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN and aims his LASER BOOSTER at it. Nothing.]
JARVIS: Sir, we will lose power before you cut through that shell.
[IRON MAN flies up ahead, facing the oncoming monster.]
IRON MAN: JARVIS. You ever hear the tale of Jonah?
JARVIS: I wouldn't consider him a role model.
[IRON MAN FLIES TOWARDS THE CHITAURI LEVIATHAN, UNLEASHING EVERY ARSENAL ON THE SUIT. The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN opens its mouth. IRON MAN flies in and BURSTS out the other end, making the CHITAURI LEVIATHAN collapse. IRON MAN rolls down the street. The wind is knocked out of him. He looks up with an overwhelming sigh as a SMALL BAND of CHITAURI SOLDIERS rush towards him, holding out their rifles.]
EXT. ROOFTOP BUILDING - DAY
[HAWKEYE turns to fire HIS LAST ARROW. Using his bow as a staff, he knocks some CHITAURI SOLDIERS, before yanking his last arrow off the dead body a CHITAURI SOLDIERS. HAWKEYE nocks his arrow, DIVES DOWN THE BUILDING and FIRES his GRAPPLING ARROW up into the side of building. Falling down, HAWKEYE finds the MOMENTUM and SWINGS himself into a building and CANNONBALLS in.]
EXT. MANHATTAN - DAY
[The HULK holds CHITAURI SOLDIERS by the face and SLAMS them down. More keep coming. HULK looks up. HUNDREDS OF RIDERS HOVER OVER HIM. Then... they begin to fire ENERGY BLASTS. HULK TAKES THEM LIKE HE'S RUNNING THROUGH A LIGHT RAIN. BLOCKING THE STREAM OF STREAKING BLASTS, AS THOUGH SWATTING AT BEES.]
EXT. HELICARRIER DECK - DAY
[A lone pilot sits in his cockpit, listening.]
WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #2: DIRECTOR FURY is no longer in command. Override order, 7 ALPHA 11.
PILOT: 7 ALPHA 11, confirmed. Prepare to takeoff.
[He ignites his engine.]
INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY
[Back in the bridge, Agent Hill sees on her PILOT preparing to leave.]
AGENT MARIA HILL: Sir, we have a bird in motion! Anyone on the deck, we have a rogue bird! We need to shut it down! Repeat! Take off is not authorized!
EXT. HELICARRIER DECK - DAY
[NICK FURY RUNS OUT TO THE DECK, HOLDING A FUCKING AIRTRONIC RPG- 7. He takes AIM and FIRES, HITTING the TAIL END of the jet. The jet SKIDS OFF towards the edge. PILOT UNHARMED. Suddenly, another JET FLIES off. Fury stands there, knowing he can't do anything about it.]
NICK FURY: Stark, you hearing me? We have a missile headed straight for the city.
IRON MAN (V.O.): How long?
NICK FURY: Three minutes, at best. Stay low and wipe out the missile.
EXT. MANHATTAN - DAY
[IRON MAN fights off as many CHITAURI SOLDIERS as he sustain.]
IRON MAN: Jarvis, put everything we got into the thrusters!
JARVIS: I just did.
[IRON MAN leaves the streets and flies up into the sky.]
EXT. SKY - DAY
[7 ALPHA 11 arrives to Manhattan. The pilot flips the switch to press the button. And once he does it, the nuke comes flying out of the jet towards the city.]
Pilot of 7 ALPHA 11: Package is sent.
Pilot of 7 ALPHA 11: Destination is in 2 minutes, 30 seconds...mark.
EXT. MANHATTAN - DAY
[The Captain and Thor continue to battle it out, side to side. They both throw their respective weapons. While Thor managed to catch his hammer, Cap is shot in the gut by an energy blast from one of the Chitauri's guns. The former runs over to a broken car and flips it over and over on its side, crushing a few Chitauri Soldiers on the way.]
[After throwing Mjlnir once again, he helps Cap back on his feet.]
THOR: You ready for another bout?
CAPTAIN AMERICA: What? You gettin' sleepy?
EXT. STARK TOWER - DAY
[Selvig, back in scientist mode, clacks away at his laptop. He nods. Black Widow grabs Loki's scepter and proceeds to slowly break into the Tesseract's forcefield, nearly approaching the Tesseract itself.]
BLACK WIDOW: I can close it!
BLACK WIDOW: Can anybody copy? I can shut the portal down!
EXT. MANHATTAN - DAY
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Do it!
IRON MAN (V.O.): No, wait!
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Stark, these things are still coming!
INSIDE THE SUIT
Tony Stark: I got a nuke coming in, it's gonna blow in less than a minute.
EXT. SKY - DAY
[Iron Man catches up to the missile from behind.]
INSIDE THE SUIT
Tony Stark: And I know just where to put it.
[As it speeds on, he grabs it from behind, gripping it tightly. With a mighty effort, he wrenches the rocket off its course and steers it towards Stark Tower, intending to fly straight towards the portal later.]
CAPTAIN AMERICA (V.O.): Stark, you know that's a one-way trip?
TONY *to Jarvis*: Save the rest for return, J.
JARVIS: Sir...
JARVIS: Shall I call Miss Potts?
IRON MAN: You might as well.
INT. STARK JET - DAY
[Pepper, along with her crew, watches in horror as the news keeps up with the destruction that the Chitauri is causing to not just Manhattan, but the entirety of New York.]
Reporter (V.O): The streets of New York City have become a battleground.
Reporter (V.O): The Army is here trying to contain the violence but clearly, it is outmatched.
[On the table, her cellphone has received Tony's call.]
Reporter (V.O): And I have to say, in all my years of reporting, I have never seen anything like this.
INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY
[Back in the bridge, every single agent holds their breath as they too watch the Iron Man's sacrifice playing out.]
Reporter (V.O): We have limited information on the team but we do know that billionaire Tony Stark's Iron Man...
EXT. SKY - DAY
[Iron Man, with full concentration, climbs higher and higher over the city, gaining speed.]
[He puts everything into his front propulsors to stop him from crashing into Stark Tower, in which he barely manages to do.]
[As Black Widow holds Loki's Scepter inside the Tesseract's forcefield, she watches Tony fly into the portal.]
[Once he reaches it, he is warped away into space almost instantly.]
INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY
[Every single agent cheers in victory. A smile is seen in Fury's face.]
EXT. SPACE
[As the missile continues to speed into space, communications die, and the suit begins to freeze. Tony looks in horror as he lets go of the missile. It whistles off into the blackness as he idly falls back down the portal's opening.]
[We then see Tony's horror...which is the entire Chitauri fleet itself, the mothership's ominous presence seen in the background. The black sky is filled with what must be ninety ships in a vague cluster. Most of them hang still in the air. Some move swimmingly about.]
[Once the missile reaches the mothership, it explodes and bursts into a supernova, creating a brief, but spectacularly heavenly display.]
EXT. MANHATTAN - DAY
[Suddenly, all of the Chitauri Soldiers and Leviathans start to shake, then keel over and die.]
EXT. SPACE
[Inside the now non-functional suit, Tony slowly closes his eyes.]
EXT. MANHATTAN - DAY
[The Avengers still on Earth look up at the portal, not sure if he'll make it through.]
EXT. STARK TOWER - DAY
[Still holding the scepter in hand, Black Widow shifts around, waiting.]
BLACK WIDOW: Come on, Stark
EXT. MANHATTAN - DAY
[Thor and Cap see the supernova coming towards them. Thor nods to Cap.]
CAPTAIN AMERICA *to Black Widow*: Close it.
EXT. STARK TOWER - DAY
[Without hesitating, she makes contact with the Tesseract, and then quickly pulls the scepter out as the energy beam keeping the portal open runs out.]
[As the portal begins to close, Tony is seen lifelessly falling into it.]
[By pure luck, he manages to get warped back to Earth right before the Supernova can reach the city and burn it asunder.]
EXT. MANHATTAN - DAY
[Back in Stark Tower, Black Widow smiles, and so does Cap down in Manhattan.]
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Son of a gun...
[But...Iron Man keeps on falling...and falling...and falling.]
EXT. MANHATTAN - DAY
THOR: He's not slowing down.
[He swings his Mjlnir around, ready to fly off.]
[But just as he was about to do it, Hulk appears and snags Iron Man out of the air, both crashing and sliding down a building.]
EXT. BRIDGE STREET - DAY
[He then leaps off, and tanks the fall damage received from landing on the bridge and an unfortunate brown car nearby.]
[He throws Iron Man off him as Thor and Cap run over to check on him.]
[Thor rips off Tony's helmet, while Cap continues to check his vitals.]
[He appears to be dead.]
[They stand around, not sure.]
[But hen...The Hulk furiously yells, startling Tony awake.]
Tony Stark: What the hell?
Tony Stark: What just happened? Please tell me nobody kissed me.
[beat]
CAPTAIN AMERICA: We won.
Tony Stark: Alright, hey...
Tony Stark: Alright. Good job, guys.
Tony Stark: Let's just not come in tomorrow...let's just...take a day.
Tony Stark: Have you ever tried shawarma? There's a shawarma joint about two blocks from here. I don't know what it is, but I wanna try it.
THOR: (looking up at Stark Tower) We're not finished yet..
Tony Stark: And then shawarma after.
INT. STARK PENTHOUSE - DAY
[Loki crawls onto the stair, looking like a piece of shit rag doll. He takes a few breathers, senses someone is behind him. He turns TO FIND THE AVENGERS STARING AT HIM, PISSED.]
LOKI: If it's all the same to you. I'll have that drink now.
[THE HULK SNORTS AT HIM.]
WEEKS LATER.
INT. SHIELD ANALYTICAL ROOM - DAY
[In TV news montage about THE AVENGERS, we see various reports of what happened. Some people agree that the avengers did good, protecting the city. Others believe it was their cause.]
OLD MAN (STAN LEE): Superheroes? In New York? Give me a break!
SENATOR BOYNTON: These so called heroes have to be held responsible for the destruction done to the city. This was their fight. Where are they now?
WAITRESS: What? That this was somehow their fault? Captain America saved my life. Wherever he is, wherever any of them are, I just wanna say thank you.
EXT. CENTRAL PARK - DAY
[The Avengers take Thor and Loki, who is handcuffed and muzzled, to a blocked area. Thor shakes hands with his team and gives Selvig a hug. Tony opens the Tesseract's case. Banner takes it out and places inside a glass tube, held by Thor. Thor gives Loki the other end, who reluctantly takes it. The Asgardians leap into the energy beam. GONE. Then, one-by-one, the group splinters off, strolling into different directions. Banner climbs in with Tony in his sports car. Steve rides away in his Harley. Natasha and Clint climb back into SHIELD cars. They all part. For now.]
INT. SHIELD ANALYTICAL ROOM - DAY
[Fury is facing once more members of the WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL.]
WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #3: Where are the Avengers?
NICK FURY: I'm not currently tracking their whereabouts. I'd say they've earned a leave of absence.
WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #2: And the Tesseract?
NICK FURY: The Tesseract is where it belongs: out of our reach.
WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #1: That's not your call.
NICK FURY: I didn't make it. I just didn't argue with the god that did.
WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #1: So you let him take it and the war criminal, Loki, who should be answering for his crimes?
NICK FURY: Oh, I think he will be.
WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #1: I don't think you understand what you've started. Letting the Avengers loose on this world. They're dangerous.
NICK FURY: They surely are. And the whole world knows it. Every world knows it.
WORLD SECURITY COUNCIL #1: Was that the point of all this? A statement?
NICK FURY: A promise.
[Fury walks out, towards the bridge.]
INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY
[Fury and Agent Hill walk together, toward the window looking out into the world.]
AGENT MARIA HILL: Sir, how does it work now? They've gone their separate ways, some pretty extremely far. We get into a situation like this again, what happens then?
NICK FURY: They'll come back.
AGENT MARIA HILL: You really sure about that?
NICK FURY: I am.
AGENT MARIA HILL: Why?
NICK FURY: Because we'll need them to.
[Agent Hill turns around. Fury looks out, smiling.]
INT. STARK PENTHOUSE - DAY
[TONY AND PEPPER UNVEIL A NEW DESIGN FOR STARK TOWER. CAMERA PULLS OUT, showing the letters for "STARK TOWER" have been blown away, and all that remains is a giant A.]
The Other: Humans. They are not the cowering wretches we were promised. They stand. They are unruly, and therefore cannot be ruled. To challenge them is to court...Death.
[The Avengers eat shawarma silently.]]
Tony Stark (V.O.): We create our own demons. Who said that? What does that even mean? Doesn't matter, I said it cause he said it. So now he was famous and that's basically get said by two well known guys. I don't, uh... (Sighs)
(Screen goes black.)
Tony Stark (V.O.): I'm gonna start again. Let's track this from the beginning.
(Effel 65's "I'm Blue" playing over the MARVEL logo.)
(1999, Bern, Switzerland, New Years Eve Party.)
Happy Hogan: (to Maya.) Half hour till the ball drops.
Tony Stark: Hey, do you want...?
Party Guest: Tony Stark? Great speech, man!
(Hogan moves the man away from Tony.)
Happy Hogan: I got you, pal.
Tony Stark: I gave a speech? How was it?
Happy Hogan: Edifying
Maya Hansen: Unintelligible.
Tony Stark: Really?
Maya Hansen: Mmm-hmm.
Tony Stark: It's my favorite kind, a winning combo.
(They start walking together.)
Maya Hansen: Where are we going?
Tony Stark: Uh, to town on each other, probably back in your room. Cause I also wanna see your research.
Maya Hansen: Okay, you can see my research, but that's...I'm not gonna show you my "town."
Ho Yinsen: Mr. Stark
(As Tony & Maya are walking away the man intercepts them.) Ho Yinsen.
Tony Stark: Oh, I finally met a man called "Ho."
(Tony & Yinsen shake hands. While, Yinsen chuckles humorlessly; Tony turns to Maya.) Come here.
Ho Yinsen: I would like to introduce you to our guest, Dr. Wu.
(Yinsen moves them towards Wu.)
Tony Stark: [to Wu] Oh, this guy.
Ho Yinsen: Mr. Stark.
Tony Stark: Hey. (Dr. Wu greets Tony in mandarin as they shake hands.) You're a heart doctor. She's going to need a cardiologist after I... (Tony turns, starts blowing on his party horn & walks away with Maya.)
Maya Hansen: Bye.
Ho Yinsen: Perhaps another time.
Tony Stark (V.O.): It started in Bern, Switzerland, 1999.
(People yelling indistinctly.) The old days.
Aldrich Killian: Mr. Stark!
Tony Stark (V.O.): I never thought they'd come back to bite me. Why would they? [As Tony and Maya walk towards the elevator an enthusiastic man with long hair comes up towards them]
Aldrich Killian: Oh, wow! Hey, Tony! Aldrich Killian. (Stuttering to Maya) I'm a big fan of your work!
Maya Hansen: My work?
Tony Stark: Who isn't? He means me.
Aldrich Killian: Well, of course. But, Miss Hansen, my organization has been tracking your research since year two of MIT.
[Tony, Maya and Hogan walk into the elevator]
Happy Hogan: Yeah, we're full.
[Hogan puts his arms out to stop Aldrich from coming inside, but he ducks under Hogan's arms and moves into the elevator]
Tony Stark: Oh, wow. He made it. He made the cut.
[Hogan traps Aldrich by the wall]
Happy Hogan: What floor are you going to, pal?
Aldrich Killian: Oh, now, that is an appropriate question. The ground floor, actually. I've got a proposal I'm putting together with myself. It's a privately-funded think tank called, Advanced Idea Mechanics. [He holds out two business cards towards Tony and Maya]
Tony Stark: Uh... she'll take both.
Maya Hansen: Okay. [takes the cards]
Tony Stark: One to throw away and one to not call.
Aldrich Killian: Advanced Idea Mechanics, or AIM for short. (Points to the logo on his shirt) Do you get it?
Tony Stark: I see that, cause it's on your t-shirt.
Aldrich Killian: Aw!
Tony Stark: (to the party of women in the elevator; referring to Hogan as they walk out) Ladies, follow the mullet.(To Maya) Ladies first.
Maya Hansen: (to Aldrich as she walks out of the elevator) Thank you, I'll call you.
[as everyone walks out of the elevator, Tony stops Aldrich from getting out by putting out his arm in front of him]
Tony Stark: I'm titillated by the notion of working with you.
Aldrich Killian: Yeah?
Tony Stark: Yeah, cheese clown. I'll see you up on the roof in five minutes. [steps out of the elevator] I'm just going to try to get my beef wet real quick. You know what I'm talkin' about?
Aldrich Killian: I'll see you up there.
[the elevator door closes]
Tony Stark: Damn betcha.
[Scene change to Maya's room}
Tony Stark: Come on! I thought that was just a theory.
Maya Hansen: Well, it was. If I'm right, we can access the area of the brain that governs repair...
[we see they are looking at a computer monitor with graph of the brain]
Tony Stark: Wow.
Maya Hansen: ...And chemically recode it.
Tony Stark: That's incredible. Essentially you're hacking into the genetic...
Both: ...Genetic operating system...
Tony Stark: ...of a...
Maya Hansen: Exactly.
Tony Stark: ...living organism.
Maya Hansen: Yes.
Tony Stark: Wow.
[Hogan touches Maya's plant]
Maya Hansen: Is that... Can you...
Happy Hogan: What?
Maya Hansen: Can you not touch my plant? It's not...she doesn't like it. She prefers...
Tony Stark: She's not like the others. (to Maya) Come on. Let's go in the bedroom. Happy...
Maya Hansen: That's cute, but...
Tony Stark: Leave her ficus alone.
Maya Hansen: [turns to Hogan] Because... and, no, seriously don't. [walks into the bedroom]
Tony Stark: And you're starting with plants?
Maya Hansen: For now, yeah.
Tony Stark: Huh.
Maya Hansen: I'm calling it Extremis.
[Happy reaches for the plant and pulls off some leaves to just throw them on the ground.]
[Tony and Maya continue talking about her research in the bedroom]
Maya Hansen: Well, it's...
Both: Human application.
Maya Hansen: Exactly! Exactly.
[Zooms in on the plant and it's growing a new "Limb"]
Maya Hansen: Dendritic revitalization.
Tony Stark: It's revolutionary.
Maya Hansen: Disease prevention...
Tony Stark: Changes the world.
Maya Hansen: ...even limb regrowth.
[Goes back to Maya and Tony]
Tony Stark: You're the most gifted woman I've ever met.
Maya Hansen: Wow.
Tony Stark: In Switzerland.
Maya Hansen: Hmm, that's better. Aw, you're seeing things.
Tony Stark: This week.
[Maya takes off Tony's glasses, Tony laughs]
Tony Stark: You almost bought it, didn't you?
[Maya puts on the glasses and Happy shuts the door. He nods and they start kissing to be interrupted by an explosion and glass shattering.]
Maya Hansen: This is what I'm talking about, the glitch.
Tony Stark: Have you checked the telomerase algorithm?
Maya Hansen: The what?
[at that moment Hogan runs into the room and tackles Tony onto the bed to make sure he's okay]
Happy Hogan: Down! Stay down! Stay down, boss.
Tony Stark: We're good.
Happy Hogan: Stay down.
Tony Stark: You're...you're right on me. I made it. (Happy gets up) What the hell was that?
[People counting down outside.]
Happy Hogan: What was that?
Maya Hansen: It's a glitch in my work. It's...
Tony Stark: She was just talking about it. Glitches happening.
Happy Hogan: It's not Y2K.
Maya Hansen: No.
[Tony hears people celebrating outside]
Tony Stark: Hey!
Happy Hogan: Happy New Year.
Tony Stark: Happy New Year.
Maya Hansen: Happy New Year.
Tony Stark: Alright, I'll see you in the morning, goodnight.
[Tony shakes hands with Hogan]
Happy Hogan: You good?
Tony Stark: Yep.
Happy Hogan: I'll be right outside.
Tony Stark: Okay.
[Hogan leaves the room; we then see Aldrich on top of the building waiting for Tony, who never shows]
Tony Stark: [voice over] So why am I telling you this? Because I had just created demons, and I didn't even know it.
[we see Tony writing a note 'You know who I am', and leaving it on the bedside table for Maya before leaving; Maya hears the door close]
Tony Stark: [voice over] Yeah, those were the good times. Then I moved on. After a brief soiree in an Afghan cave, I said goodbye to the party scene. Forgot that night in Switzerland. These days I'm a changed man, I'm different now. I'm well... you know who I am.
[Present Day, Malibu, California - Tony is in his lab injecting himself with some devices]
Tony Stark: Ow!
JARVIS: Sir, please may I request just a few hours to calibrate...
Tony Stark: No. Forty-eight. [he injects himself] Ah! Micro-repeater implanting sequence complete.
JARVIS: As you wish, sir. I've also prepared a safety briefing for you to entirely ignore.
Tony Stark: Which I will. Right, let's do this.
[to the robot that's using a broom to clear the rubbish off the floor]
Tony Stark: Dummy. Hi, Dummy. How did you get that cap on your head? You earned it.
[Tony walks towards the robot]
Tony Stark: Hey. Hey! What are you doing round in the corner? You know what you did. Blood on my mat, handle it.
JARVIS: Sir, may I remind you that you've been awake for nearly seventy-two hours.
[addressing the Iron Man suits that are in their glass cages]
Tony Stark: Focus up, ladies. Good evening, and welcome to the birthing suite. I'm pleased to announce the imminent arrival of your bouncing, bad-ass, baby brother.
[to Jarvis as he records Tony with a camera]
Tony Stark: Start tight and go wide, stamp in time. Mark 42 autonomous prehensile propulsion suit test. Initialize sequence.
[Tony raises his hands and motions to activate the new suit]
Tony Stark: Jarvis, drop my needle.
[music starts playing, Tony moves with the music then points his arm where he'd been injecting himself toward the dismantled Iron Man suit on the table opposite, nothing happens]
Tony Stark: Crap.
[Tony bites his arm where he'd injected himself once and then hits it five times, he points his arm again and this time a part of the suit flies over to Tony and attaches itself to his hand and extends to his arm and shoulder, Tony then points his other arm toward the suit and the second part attaches itself to his hand and arm, Tony laughs]
Tony Stark: Alright, I think we got this. Send 'em all.
[the leg part flies over and attaches itself to Tony's leg, then as another part flies over it crashes into one of the Iron Man suit glass cages, then another part hurls itself at Tony and Tony inflects it with his arm making it crash]
Tony Stark: Probably a little fast, slow it down. Slow it down just a...
[suddenly another part of the suit shoots over and Tony ducks as it narrowly misses hitting him in the head]
Tony Stark: ...little bit.
[the other parts fly over and attach themselves with force to Tony's back and crotch area]
Tony Stark: Cool it, will you, Jarvis?
[then all the other parts shoot over and get attached to Tony, accept for the final face piece, which just hovers, facing Tony]
Tony Stark: Come on. I ain't scared of you.
[the face piece flies over and Tony flips over to grab the piece and finally the Iron Man suit is fully attached to Tony]
Tony Stark: I'm the best.
[at that moment, one of the stray pieces of the suit shoot over to Tony, knock hims down, which knocks the entire suit, except for the head piece, off Tony]
JARVIS: As always, sir, a great pleasure watching you work.
Tony Stark: [voice over] And I guess seventy-two hours isn't a long time between siesta's. Didn't think it could get any worse. Then I had to go and turn on the TV.
[the news on TV shows footage of The Mandarin]
Tony Stark: [voice over] That's when he happened.
The Mandarin: Some people call me a terrorist, I consider myself a teacher. America, ready for another lesson. In 1864 in Sand Creek Colorado the U.S. military waited till the friendly Cheyenne braves all gone hunting, waited to attack and slaughter their families left behind, and claim their land. Thirty-nine hours ago the Ali Al Salem Air Base in Kuwait was attacked. I...I...I did that. A quaint military church filled with wives and children, of course. The soldiers were out on maneuvers, the braves were away. President Ellis, you continue to resist my attempts to educate you, sir. And now, you've missed me again. You know who I am, you don't know where I am, and you'll never see me coming.
[as this footage ends, the TV channels change and all the news channels are talking about The Mandarin]
[the news on TV shows President Ellis addresses The Mandarin Threat]
News Reporter #1: And now that we seem to be back, let's recap some of the frightening...
News Reporter #2: American Airwaves were highjacked...
News Reporter #3: The nation remains on high alert...
News Reporter #4: All attempts to find the Mandarin have so far proved unsuccessful...
President Ellis: Central to my Administration's response to this terrorist event, is a newly minted resource. I know him as Colonel James Rhodes, the American people will soon know him as the Iron Patriot.
[we then see Bill Maher talking about this on his show]
Bill Maher: And how is President Ellis responding? By taking the guy they call War Machine and giving him a paint job.
[then we see Joan Rivers on 'The Fashion Police' talking about the new Iron Man suit]
Joan Rivers: Same suit, but painted red, white, and blue. Look at rhat. And they also renamed him Iron Patriot. You know, just in case the paint was too subtle.
[Rhodes and Tony Stark are at a bar and they see Joan Rivers making fun of the Iron Patriot suit on TV]
Colonel James Rhodes: It tested well with focus groups, alright?
Tony Stark: [putting on a mocking voice] I am Iron Patriot...
Colonel James Rhodes: Listen, War Machine was a little too aggressive, alright? This sends a better message.
Tony Stark: So what's really goin' on? With Mandarin. Seriously, can we talk about this guy?
[Tony moves closer to Rhodes]
Colonel James Rhodes: It's classified information, Tony. Okay, there have been nine bombings.
Tony Stark: Nine.
Colonel James Rhodes: The public only knows about three. Here's the thing, nobody can ID a device. There's no bomb casings.
Tony Stark: You know I can help, just ask. I got a ton of new tech, I got a prehensile, I got a...I got a new bomb disposal. Catches explosions mid-air.
Colonel James Rhodes: When's the last time you got a good night's sleep?
Tony Stark: Einstein slept three hours a year. Look what he did?
Colonel James Rhodes: People are concerned about you, Tony. I'm concerned about you.
Tony Stark: You're gonna come at me like that?
Colonel James Rhodes: No. No, look, I'm not trying to be a dic...
[a girl and a boy come up to their table]
Colonel James Rhodes: ...tator.
Erin: Do you mind signing my drawing?
Tony Stark: If Richard doesn't mind. [to Rhodes] You alright with this, Dick?
Colonel James Rhodes: Fine with me.
[Tony looks at the drawing of himself in his Iron Man suit that the girl has drawn]
Tony Stark: [To the girl] What's your name?
Erin: Erin.
[Tony looks at the boy standing next to him]
Tony Stark: I loved you in A Christmas Story, by the way.
[as Tony is signing Erin's drawing]
Colonel James Rhodes: Listen, the Pentagon is scared. After what happened in New York... aliens, come on. They need to look strong. Stopping the Mandarin is priority, but it's not...
Tony Stark: It's not superhero business, I get it.
Colonel James Rhodes: No, it's not, quite frankly. It's American business.
Tony Stark: That's why I said I...got it.
[suddenly as Tony is signing the drawing he looks ill, he places his hand on his face]
Colonel James Rhodes: Are you okay?
Tony Stark: I broke the crayon.
Erin: Are you okay, Mr. Stark?
Colonel James Rhodes: Take it easy. Tony...
Little Boy: [the little boy whispers to Tony] How did you get out of the wormhole? How did you get out of the wormhole?
[suddenly Tony rises and starts walking off]
Colonel James Rhodes: Wait a minute! Tony!
[Rhodes follows Tony as he walks out the bar]
Tony Stark: What'd he say?!
Colonel James Rhodes: Tony!
Tony Stark: Sorry. Have to check on the suit...make sure...okay.
[Tony steps into his Iron Man suit that was parked outside the bar and collapses to his knees]
Tony Stark: Check the heart, check the...check the...is it the brain?
JARVIS: No sign of cardiac analomy or unusual brain activity.
Tony Stark: Okay, so I was poisoned?
Jarvis: My diagnosis is that you've experienced a severe anxiety attack.
Tony Stark: Me?
[Rhodes knocks on the Iron Suit's head, people have gathered around them watching Tony]
Colonel James Rhodes: Come on, man. This isn't a good look, open up.
Tony Stark: Sorry, I gotta split.
[Tony flies off in his suit]
[at Stark Industries Hogan points to his badge as walks through the lobby passing the other employees]
Happy Hogan: Badge. Badge. Come on, badge. Badge, guys. I put a memo in the toilet, come on. [referring to Tony's robots as Hogan meets with Pepper] Tony has got them in his basement, they're wearing party hats. This is an asset that we can put to use.
Pepper Potts: Uh-huh. So, you're suggesting that I replace the entire janitorial staff with robots?
Happy Hogan: What I'm saying is that the human element of Human Resources is our biggest point of vulnerability. We should start phasing it out immediately.
Pepper Potts: What!?
Happy Hogan: [to another employee as Hogan walks past them] Excuse me, Bambi.
Pepper Potts: [Hogan points to his badge] Did you just say that?
Happy Hogan: Security.
Pepper Potts: Happy?
Happy Hogan: Yes.
Pepper Potts: Okay, I am thrilled that you're now the Head of Security, okay? It is the perfect position for you.
Happy Hogan: Thank you.
Pepper Potts: However...
Happy Hogan: I do appreciate it
Pepper Potts: Since you've taken the post...
Happy Hogan: You don't have to thank me.
Pepper Potts: We've had a rise in staff complaints of three hundred percent
Happy Hogan: Thank you.
Pepper Potts: That's not a compliment.
Happy Hogan: That's not a compli...? It is a compliment! Clearly somebody's trying to hide something.
Pepper Potts: I...
Pepper's Assistant: Excuse me.
Pepper Potts: Yes?
Pepper's Assistant: Miss Potts, your four o'clock is here.
Pepper Potts: Thank you.
Happy Hogan: Did you clear this four o'clock with me?
Pepper Potts: Happy, we'll talk about this later. But right now I have to go deal with this very annoying thing.
[Pepper starts walking towards her office]
Happy Hogan: How so?
Pepper Potts: I used to work with him, and he used to ask me out all the time. So it's a little awkward.
[Hogan opens her office glass door and they enter]
Happy Hogan: I don't like the sound of that.
[as they step inside, they see Aldrich, looking handsome and fit in a business suit]
[Pepper looks shocked at the change in Aldrich's appearance]
Aldrich Killian: Pepper.
Pepper Potts: Killian?
Aldrich Killian: You look great. You look really great.
Pepper Potts: God, you look...you look great. I... I...I can't... What on earth have you been doing?
Aldrich Killian: Nothing fancy, just five years in the hands of physical therapists. And please, call me Aldrich.
Happy Hogan: Uh...you were supposed to be issued a security badge.
Pepper Potts: Happy, it's okay.
Happy Hogan: Yes?
Pepper Potts: We're good.
Happy Hogan: You sure?
Pepper Potts: Yes. Stand down.
Happy Hogan: Okay. I'm gonna linger, right here.
Pepper Potts: Thank you.
Happy Hogan: Okay.
[Hogan steps out of Pepper's office and closes the glass door]
Pepper Potts: It's very nice to see you, Killian.
[as Hogan waits outside Pepper's office, he sees Aldrich's man sitting in the waiting area]
Happy Hogan: Hey, guy.
[Hogan points to his security badge and the guy picks up his badge from the table next to him and holds it up to show Hogan he has a badge; to an employee as they walk past him]
Savin: Merry Christmas.
[Hogan looks at him with suspicion]
[back in Pepper's office]
Aldrich Killian: After years dodging the President's ban on "immoral biotech research", my think tank now has a little something in the pipeline. It's an idea we like to call Extremis. I'm gonna turn your lights down.
[he dims the lights then holds in his hand three small metal balls]
Aldrich Killian: Regard the human brain.
[he throws the balls onto the coffee table and as they roll and stop, they project a 3d image into the room]
Aldrich Killian: Uh...wait. Hold on, hold on. That's...that's the universe, my bad. But if I do that...
[he presses his projector control which changes the 3d image to show inside of the brain]
Aldrich Killian: That's the brain. Strangely mimetic though, wouldn't you say?
Pepper Potts Wow, that's amazing!
Aldrich Killian: Thanks, it's mine.
Pepper Potts: What?
Aldrich Killian: This...you're inside my head. It's a...
[he taps behind his ear, referring to something embedded inside his head]
Aldrich Killian: It's a live feed. Come on up, I'll prove it to you.
[Aldrich rises from the couch and stands on the coffee table]
Aldrich Killian: Come on.
[he helps Pepper to stand on the coffee table next to him, they stand directly in the 3d image]
Aldrich Killian: Now, pinch my arm. I can take it. Pinch me.
[Pepper pinches him and immediately something lights up in the 3d image of Aldrich's brain]
Pepper Potts: What is that?
Aldrich Killian: It's the primary somatosensory cortex. It's the brain's pain center. But this is what I wanted to show you.
[he turns Pepper round and presses his projector control and starts changing and moving the image with his hand]
Aldrich Killian: Now, Extremis harnesses our bioelectrical potential and it goes...here. This is essentially an empty slot, and what this tells us is that our mind, our entire DNA in fact, is destined to be upgraded.
Pepper Potts: Wow.
[as Hogan sits outside Pepper's office, he gets a call on his tablet, he answers the call and holds the tablet high so the camera monitor shows his forehead and eyes]
Happy Hogan: Hello?
Tony Stark: Is this forehead of Security?
Happy Hogan: What? You know, look, I got a real job. What do you want? I'm working, I got something going on here.
[we see Tony is in his lab]
Tony Stark: What? Harassing interns?
Happy Hogan: Let me tell you something, you know what happened when I told people I was Iron Man's body guard? They would laugh in my face.
[Tony laughs]
Happy Hogan: I had to leave while I still had a shred of dignity. Now I got a real job, I'm watching Pepper.
Tony Stark: What's going on? Fill me in.
Happy Hogan: For real?
Tony Stark: Yeah.
Happy Hogan: Alright, so she's meeting up with this scientist. Rich guy, handsome.
Tony Stark: Right.
Happy Hogan: I couldn't make his face at first, right? You know I'm good with faces.
Tony Stark: Oh, Yeah, yeah. You're the best.
Happy Hogan: Yeah. Well, so I run his credentials, I make him Aldrich Killian. We actually met the guy back in... where were we in '99? The science conference?
Tony Stark: Um...Switzerland.
Happy Hogan: Right, right, exactly.
Tony Stark: Killian? No, I don't remember that guy.
Happy Hogan: Of course you don't. He's not a blond with a big rack. At first it was fine, they were talking business, but now it's like getting weird. He's showing her a big brain.
Tony Stark: His what?
Happy Hogan: Big brain, and she likes it. Here, let me show you. Hold on. See? [he holds his tablet up and points it towards Pepper's glass office, where Aldrich and Pepper are standing close together on the coffee table watching the 3d image of the brain, but all Tony sees is Hogan pointing the tablet camera at himself]
Tony Stark: Look at what? You watching them? Flip the screen and then we can get started.
Happy Hogan: I'm not a tech genius like you. Just...just trust me, get down down here.
Tony Stark: Flip the screen, then I can see what they're doing.
Happy Hogan: I can't! I don't know how to flip the screen! Don't talk to me like that anymore. You're not my boss.
[as Hogan is talking, Tony uses his small tablet device to look up Aldrich and finds his photo]
Happy Hogan: Alright, I don't work for you. Now I don't trust this guy. He's got another guy with him, he's shifty.
Tony Stark: Relax.
Happy Hogan: Seriously?
Tony Stark: I'm just asking you to secure the perimeter. Tell him to go out for a drink or something?
Happy Hogan: You know what? You should take more of an interest in what's going on here. This woman... this woman's the best thing that ever happened to you, and you...you're just ignoring her.
Tony Stark: A giant brain?
Happy Hogan: Yeah, there's a giant brain, there's a shifty character. I'm gonna follow this guy. I'm gonna run his plates and if it gets rough, so be it.
Tony Stark: I miss you, Happy.
Happy Hogan: Yeah, I miss you too. But the way it used to be. Now you're off with the 'superfriends', I don't know what's going on with you anymore. The world's getting weird...
Tony Stark: Hey, I...I'd hate to cut you off. Do you have your taser on you?
Happy Hogan: Why?
Tony Stark: I think there's a gal in HR who's trying to steal some printer ink, you should probably go over there and zap her.
[he puts his small tablet in his wine fridge and closes it and walks off still with Hogan online]
Happy Hogan: Yeah, nice.
[back in Pepper's office after Aldrich has show her his new research]
Aldrich Killian: Imagine if you could hack into the hard drive of any living organism and recode its DNA.
Pepper Potts: It would be incredible.
Aldrich Killian: Mm.
Pepper Potts: Unfortunately, to my ears it also sounds highly weaponizable. As in enhanced soldiers, private armies, and Tony is not...
Aldrich Killian: Tony. Tony. You know, I invited Tony to join AIM thirteen years ago, he turned me down. But something tells me now there is a new genius on the throne who doesn't have to answer to Tony anymore, and who has slightly less of an ego.
Pepper Potts: It's gonna be a no, Aldrich. As much as I'd like to help you.
[we see Aldrich leaving the building]
Aldrich Killian: Well, I can't say that I'm not disappointed. But then as my father used to say, 'Failure is the fog through which we glimpse triumph.'
Pepper Potts: That's very deep.
Aldrich Killian: Mm
Pepper Potts: And I have no idea what it means.
Aldrich Killian: Well, me neither. He was kind of an idiot, my old man.
[Pepper laughs]
Aldrich Killian: I'm sure I'll see you again, Pepper.
[Aldrich kisses her gently on the cheek and Pepper watches him as he walks off, then Pepper notices Hogan coming toward her, Pepper looks flustered]
Pepper Potts: Happy...
Happy Hogan: The car is ready, if you're ready to go.
[Pepper glances over to Aldrich as he walks towards his car]
Pepper Potts: Yes. I just um... God, I forgot my... other thing, so... I'm just gonna...
[she walks back into the building, Hogan glance over to Aldrich's car and as it drives away, Hogan takes a photo of the license plate]
[later Pepper returns to Tony's home, as she gets out of the car she sees a large stuffed rabbit outside the house that Tony has bought for her as a gift, she walks inside]
Pepper Potts: I'm sorry I'm late. I was... What the...? What is that?!
[she notices Tony sat in his Iron Man suit on the couch]
Pepper Potts: You're wearing this in the house now? What is that, like Mark 15?
[Tony looks at the small number marked 42 on the suit]
Tony Stark: Uh...yeah. Something like that. You know everybody needs a hobby.
Pepper Potts: Oh, and you have to wear your hobby in the living room?
[Tony rises and walks toward her]
Tony Stark: Just breakin' it in. You know, it's always a little pinchy in the gooey bag at first, so.
[Tony shakes his ass and Pepper laughs]
Tony Stark: Oh hey, did you see your Christmas present?
Pepper Potts: Yes, I did. I...I don't know how I could have missed that Christmas present. Is it gonna fit through the door?
Tony Stark: Well actually, uh...it's a good question. I got a team of guys comin' tomorrow, they're gonna blow out that wall.
Pepper Potts: Okay.
Tony Stark: So, uh...tense? Good day?
[Tony walks up behind her and starts massaging her shoulders]
Tony Stark: Ooh shoulders, a little knotty. Naughty girl. I don't wanna harp on this, but did you like the custom rabbit?
Pepper Potts: Did I like it?
Tony Stark: Nailed it, right?
Pepper Potts: Wow. I appreciate the thought very much.
[Pepper turns to face Tony, she rises from her seat and stands close to him]
Pepper Potts: So why don't you lift up that face mask and give me a kiss?
[Tony knocks the metal helmet on his head]
Tony Stark: Huh. Yup, dammit. No can do. You wanna just kiss it on the...
Pepper Potts: Uh-huh.
Tony Stark: The facial slit?
Pepper Potts: Well, why don't I run down to the garage and see if I can't find a crowbar to shimmy that thing open?
Tony Stark: Crowbar. Yeah.
[Pepper starts walking towards Tony's lab]
Tony Stark: Oh, except there's been a...uh...a radiation leak.
Pepper Potts: I'll take my chances.
Tony Stark: That's risky.
[Pepper walks down the stairs to Tony's lab]
Tony Stark: At least let me get you like a Hazmat suit or a Geiger counter or something like that.
[Pepper sees Tony is in fact not in his Iron Man suit, but in the lab exercising as he remotely controls the suit, which follows Pepper into the lab]
Tony Stark: Busted.
Pepper Potts: This is a new level of lame.
Tony Stark: Sorry.
[Pepper notices the food tray in the corner]
Pepper Potts: You ate without me, already? On date night?
Tony Stark: [referring to Mark 42 suit] He was just...
Pepper Potts: You mean you?
Tony Stark: Well, yeah. I just mean we were just...just hosting you while I finished up a little work.
Pepper Potts: Uh-huh.
Tony Stark: And yes, I had a quick bite. I didn't know if you were comin' home or if you were having drinks with Aldrich Killian.
[Mark 42 suit turns its face toward her, as if to look at her accusingly]
Pepper Potts: What?
Tony Stark: What?
Pepper Potts: Aldrich Killian? What are you checking up on me?
Tony Stark: Happy was concerned.
Pepper Potts: No, you're spying on me.
Tony Stark: I wasn't...
Pepper Potts: I'm going to bed.
[Pepper turns and starts walking off]
Tony Stark: Hold on. Come on. Pep.
[as Pepper starts walking upstairs]
Tony Stark: Hey, I admit it! My fault. Sorry.
[Pepper stops and looks at him]
Tony Stark: I'm a piping hot mess. It's been going on for a while, I haven't said anything.
[Pepper walks back down]
Tony Stark: Nothing's been the same since New York.
Pepper Potts: Oh really? Well, I didn't notice that, at all.
Tony Stark: You experience things and then they're over and you still can't explain 'em. Gods, aliens, other dimensions. I...I'm just a man in a can. The only reason I haven't cracked up is probably because you moved in. Which is great. I love you, I'm lucky. But, honey, I can't sleep. You go to bed, I come down here. I do what I know, I tinker.
[he pauses for a moment and sits down]
Tony Stark: But threat is imminent, and I have to protect the one thing that I can't live without. That's you. My suits, they're uh...
Pepper Potts: Machines.
Tony Stark: They're part of me.
Pepper Potts: A distraction.
Tony Stark: Maybe.
[Pepper walks towards Tony and they hold each other. He rests his head against her chest and she removes his headband that controls the Iron Man suits]
Pepper Potts: I'm gonna take a shower.
Tony Stark: Okay.
[Pepper turns to walk off, then stops and looks at him]
Pepper Potts: And you're gonna join me.
Tony Stark: Better.
[later that night, as Tony and Pepper are sleeping, Tony starts having nightmares about when he was in New York with The Avengers and had to get rid of the nuke in space, Pepper wakes and starts to shake Tony awake]
Pepper Potts: Tony! Tony! Tony! Tony...
[suddenly Pepper gets grabbed and shoved off Tony by Mark 42 suit, this wakes Tony who commands the suit]
Tony Stark: Power down!
[the suit shuts down and Tony hits it making its pieces fall apart, he looks over at Pepper who is in shock]
Tony Stark: I must have called it in my sleep. That's not supposed to happen. I'll recalibrate the sensors. Can we just...just let me...just let me catch my breath, okay?
[Pepper rises and starts to leave]
Tony Stark: Don't go, alright? Pepper?
Pepper Potts: I'm going to sleep downstairs. Tinker with that.
[Pepper leaves the room]
[at the Chinese theater in Los Angeles, we see Aldrich's henchman meet a man who's sat outside the theater]
Savin: Can you regulate?
Taggert: Yes, I can regulate.
Savin: Are you sure about that?
Taggert: Yes.
[Hogan who's been following Savin, keeps an eye on him from a distance, he sees Savin giving the man a briefcase]
Savin: It's a decent batch. Don't say I never did nothin' for you.
Taggert: Thank you...I mean for understanding.
[Savin walks off, Hogan walks towards Taggert and as Taggert rises to leave Hogan bumps into him which knock the briefcase out of Taggert's hand, falling open on to the ground]
Happy Hogan: I'm sorry, buddy.
[Hogan helps him put the stuff back in the suitcase, and as he looks at Taggert he notices that he is glowing red, Hogan starts to walk off taking one of the items from the suitcase, but suddenly Savin bumps into him]
Savin: What are you doin', buddy? You out by yourself? A little date night? Watching your favorite chick flick maybe?
Happy Hogan: Yeah, a little movie called "The Party's Over", starring you and your junkie girlfriend, and here's the ticket. [Hogan shows him what he took from Taggert's suitcase]
Savin: No kidding? That doesn't belong to you. [Savin goes to take the item from Hogan's hand, but Hogan punches Savin in the face twice, Hogan notices Savin's face glow red and heal, then Savin grabs hold of Hogan and with super strength throws him aside, as Savin walks towards Hogan, Taggert begins to glow red and turn super hot]
Taggert: Savin!
Savin: What?
Taggert: Help! Help me! [Taggert suddenly explodes, causing a massive explosion inside the theater which wounds Hogan, as he lies injured, Hogan sees Savin, also glowing red and then healing and walking off as if nothing has happened]
[we see another TV footage from The Mandarin]
The Mandarin: True story about fortune cookies. They look Chinese, they sound Chinese, but they're actually an American invention. Which is why they're hollow, full of lies, and leave a bad taste in the mouth. My disciples just destroyed another cheap American knock-off, The Chinese Theater. Mr. President, I know this must be getting frustrating, but this season of terror is drawing to a close. And don't worry, the big one is coming; your graduation.
[as Hogan lies in hospital critically injured, Tony is sat in his room when a nurse walks in to check on Hogan]
Tony Stark: Hi.
Happy's Nurse: Oh.
Tony Stark: [referring to the TV] Uh...mind leaving that on?
Happy's Nurse: Sure. [Tony rises from his seat]
Tony Stark: Sunday night's PBS 'Downtown Abbey'. That's his show, he thinks it's elegant. [he pauses for a moment] One more thing...make sure everyone wears their badges. He's a stickler for that sort of thing, plus my guys won't let anyone in without them. [Tony turns to leave]
[news reporters are all waiting for Tony outside the hospital]
Hospital News Reporter: We're awaiting the arrival of Tony Stark. We're hoping he'll give us the reaction...his reaction to the latest attack. [Tony walks out and all the reporters swarm toward him] Mr. Stark! Mr. Stark! Our sources are telling us that this is another Mandarin attack. Anything else you can tell us? [Tony ignores the questions and walks toward his car]
Pushy Tabloid Reporter: Hey, Mr. Stark! When is somebody gonna kill this guy? Just sayin'. [Tony turns to face the reporter]
Tony Stark: Is that what you want? Here's a little Holiday greeting I've been wanting to send to the Mandarin. I just didn't know how to phrase it until now. My name is Tony Stark and I'm not afraid of you. I know you're a coward, so I've decided [He removes his sunglasses and stares into the phone's camera] that you just died, pal. I'm gonna come get the body. There's no politics here; it's just good old-fashioned revenge. There's no Pentagon; it's just you and me. And on the off-chance you're a man, here's my home address: 10-8-80, Malibu Point, 9-0-2-6-5. I'll leave the door unlocked. [to the reporter] That's what you wanted, right? [He takes the phone and throws it at a wall] Bill me. [Tony gets in his car and drives off]
[as Tony is working his lab]
JARVIS: I've compiled a Mandarin database for you, sir. Drawn from S.H.I.E.L.D., F.B.I., and C.I.A. intercepts. Initiating virtual crime scene reconstruction. [Tony starts looking at all the data gathered]
Tony Stark: Okay, what do we got here? His name is an ancient Chinese war mantle, meaning "adviser to the King". South American insurgency tactics, talks like a Baptist preacher. There's lots of pageantry going on here...lots of theater. [Tony pushes the virtual information down to close] Close. [Tony looks at the virtual crime scene reconstruction]
JARVIS: The heat from the blast was in excess of 3000 degrees Celsius. Any subjects within 12.5 yards were vaporized instantly.
Tony Stark: No bomb parts found in a three mile radius of the Chinese theater.
JARVIS: No, sir.
Tony Stark: Talk to me, Happy. [in the virtual reconstruction, Tony sees Hogan pointing his finger at some dog tags] When is a bomb not a bomb? [Tony picks up the virtual image of the dog tags to investigate them further] When is a bomb not a bomb? [Tony picks up the virtual image of the dog tags to investigate them further] Any military victims?
JARVIS: Not according to public records, sir.
Tony Stark: Bring up the thermogenic signatures again, factor in three thousand degrees.
JARVIS: The oracle cloud has completed analysis. Accessing satellites and plotting the last twelve months of thermogenic occurrence now.
Tony Stark: Take away everywhere that there's been a Mandarin attack. [Tony looks at the information popping up] Nope. [he sees an attack in Rose Hill, Tennessee] That. You sure that's not one of his?
JARVIS: It predates any known Mandarin attack. The incident was the use of a bomb to assist a suicide.
Tony Stark: Bring her around.
JARVIS: The heat signature is remarkably similar. Three thousand degrees Celsius. [Tony looks at all the information being presented on the Tennessee attack]
Tony Stark: That's two military guys. Ever been to Tennessee, Jarvis?
JARVIS: Creating a flight plan for Tennessee. [as Tony is about to get ready to leave for Tennessee, he hears his door bell ring]
Tony Stark: Are we still at "ding-dong"? We're supposed to be on total security lock down. Come on, I threatened a terrorist. Who is that?
JARVIS: There's only so much I can do, sir, when you give the world's press your home address. [we see Maya standing outside Tony's house, the glass doors are opened and she enters]
Tony Stark: Right there's fine. [Tony dressed in his Iron Man suit walks toward her] You're not the Mandarin, are you? Are you?
Maya Hansen: You don't remember. Why am I not surprised?
Tony Stark: Don't take it personally, I don't remember what I had for breakfast.
JARVIS: Gluten-free waffles, sir.
Tony Stark: That's right.
Maya Hansen: Okay, look, I need to be alone with you. Someplace not here, it's urgent.
Tony Stark: Normally, I'd go for that sort of thing, but now I'm in a committed relationship. [as he turns to walk into the living room, two bags are thrown down from the above balcony] It's...with her.
Pepper Potts: Tony, is somebody there? [Tony steps out of his suit]
Tony Stark: Yeah, it's Maya Hansen. [Maya smiles] Old botanist pal that I used to know, barely. [as Pepper starts walking downstairs, Tony moves towards Maya and speaks quietly] Please don't tell me that there is a twelve year-old kid waiting in the car that I've never met.
Maya Hansen: He's thirteen. And no, I need your help.
Tony Stark: What...what for? Why now?
Maya Hansen: Because I read the papers, and, frankly, I don't think you'll last the week.
Tony Stark: I'll be fine.
Pepper Potts: I'm sorry. With Happy in the hospital, I didn't know we were expecting guests.
Tony Stark: We weren't.
Maya Hansen: No, I...
Pepper Potts: And old girlfriends!
Tony Stark: She's not really.
Maya Hansen: No, not really. It...it was just one night.
Tony Stark: Yep.
Pepper Potts: That's how you did it, isn't it? Yep.
Tony Stark: It was a great night.
Pepper Potts: Well, you know...
Maya Hansen: Yeah.
Pepper Potts: You have saved yourself a world of pain.
Maya Hansen: I'm sure.
Tony Stark: What?
Pepper Potts: Trust me. [to Tony] We're going out of town.
Tony Stark: Okay, we've been through this. Nope.
Pepper Potts: Yep!
Tony Stark: The man says no.
Pepper Potts: Immediately and indefinitely!
Tony Stark: Honey...
Maya Hansen: Great idea. Let's go.
Tony Stark: I'm sorry. That's a terrible idea. Please don't touch her bags.
Pepper Potts: Tony, this is how normal people behave.
Tony Stark: I can't protect you out there. I challenged... [Maya notices giant stuffed rabbit Tony had bought for Pepper]
Maya Hansen: Is...is that normal?
Tony Stark: Yes, this is normal!
Pepper Potts: Sadly, that...is very normal.
Tony Stark: It's a big bunny, relax about it!
Pepper Potts: Calm down!
Tony Stark: I got this for you.
Pepper Potts: I'm aware of that.
Tony Stark: You still haven't even told me that you liked it!
Pepper Potts: I don't like it!
Tony Stark: I asked you three... You don't like it?! [as Tony and Pepper are bickering, Maya notices on the TV that helicopters are coming toward Tony's home]
Pepper Potts: Tony, we are leaving the house; that's not even up for discussion.
Tony Stark: I said no.
Maya Hansen: Guys, can we um...
Tony Stark: What?
Maya Hansen: [she points to the bomb heading straight for the house] Do we need to worry about that? [The house is suddenly hit, as everything explodes around them, Tony manages to get his Iron Man suit onto Pepper to protect her from the fall, Tony looks over to Maya, who's lying unconscious on the ground, as the ceiling is about to fall on Tony, Pepper saves him with the Iron Man suit]
Pepper Potts: I got you.
Tony Stark: I got you first. Like I said, we can't stay here. [the helicopters starts shooting at the house] Move! I'm right behind! [as they run to get out, the floor between Pepper and Tony collapses] Get her, I'm gonna find a way around. [Pepper hesitates] Stop stopping! Get her, get outside! Go! [Pepper manages to grab Maya and use the Iron Man suit to get them safely out of the house, but the house gets further destroyed as the helicopters continue to fire on it]
Pepper Potts: Oh my God. Tony! [back inside as the house is being destroyed around Tony]
JARVIS: Sir, Miss Potts is clear of the structure. [Tony motions for his Iron Man suit to come off Pepper and onto him]
Tony Stark: Jarvis, where's my flight power?!
JARVIS: Working on it, sir. This is a prototype. [Tony manages to fire a piano at a helicopter to destroy it]
Tony Stark: That's one.
JARVIS: Sir, the suit is not combat-ready. [Tony manages to get away from the bullets being fired at him from one of the remaining helicopters and again uses his suit to bring down the helicopter]
Tony Stark: That's two. [as the helicopter explodes it crashes into the house, the remaining helicopter continues on shooting at the house, finally the remains of house with Tony inside fall into the ocean, Pepper runs to the edge of the cliff and looks down into the ocean. In the water, Tony starts to feel like he's drowning]
Pepper Potts: Tony!
JARVIS: Sir, take a deep breath. [after a few moments Tony's suit gets its flight power activated by Jarvis] Flight power restored. [finally Tony manages to fly out of the ocean.]
[The screen goes black]
JARVIS: Sir. Sir!
Tony Stark: Alright, kill the alarm. I got it.
JARVIS: That's the emergency alert triggered by the power dropping below five percent. [Tony notices that he's flying through the snow at night, he falls and crashes into the ground in the middle of a forest, he takes off his face helmet as he lies on the ground catching his breath]
Tony Stark: It's snowing, right? Where are we, upstate?
JARVIS: We're five miles outside of Rose Hills, Tennessee.
Tony Stark: Why?! Jarvis! Not my idea! What are we doing here? This is thousands of miles away, I gotta get Pepper, I gotta...
JARVIS: I prepared a flight plan. This was the location.
Tony Stark: Who asked you? Open the suit.
JARVIS: I...I think I may be malfunctioning, sir.
Tony Stark: Open eject. [the suit gets off Tony and he sits up] That's brisk! [as Tony starts to feel the cold weather.] Maybe I'll just cozy back up for a bit.
JARVIS: I actually think I need to sleep now, sir. [the suit loses power]
Tony Stark: Jarvis. Jarvis? Don't leave me, buddy. [Tony drags the suit to a petrol station and makes a call to Pepper]
Computer Voice: Stark Secure Server: Now transferring to all known receivers.
Tony Stark: Pepper, it's me. I've got a lot of apologies to make and not a lot of time. So first off, I'm so sorry I put you in harm's way. That was selfish and stupid and it won't happen again. Also, it's Christmas time, the rabbit's too big. Done. Sorry. And I'm sorry in advance because...I can't come home yet. I need to find this guy. You gotta stay safe. That's all I know. I just stole a poncho from a wooden Indian. [Tony drags the suit to an abandoned looking farmhouse, he places the suit on a couch and sits next to it] Let's get you comfy. [he places its hand by its side] You happy now? [as Tony tries to fix the micro-repeater implants in his arm, a boy stands by the doorway and points his toy gun at Tony]
Harley Keener: Freeze! Don't move.
Tony Stark: You got me. Nice potato gun. Barrel's a little long. Between that and the wide gauge, it's gonna diminish your FPS. [the boy points his gun at a glass on a shelf and shoots at it, breaking the glass] And now you're out of ammo.
Harley Keener: What's that thing on your chest?
Tony Stark: It's a electromagnet. You should know, you've got a box of them right here.
Harley Keener: What does it power? [Tony stands and points the desk light at his suit sitting on the couch behind him] Oh my God! [Harley drops his toy gun and takes a step towards Tony] Oh my god! That... that's... Is that Iron Man?
Tony Stark: Technically, I am.
Harley Keener: Technically, you're dead. [he give Tony a newspaper which has Tony's picture with the headline 'Mandarin Attack: Stark presumed dead']
Tony Stark: A valid point.
Harley Keener: [referring to the suit as he sits next to it on the couch checking it out] What happened to him?
Tony Stark: Life. I built him, I take care of him, I'll fix him.
Harley Keener: Like a mechanic?
Tony Stark: Yeah.
Harley Keener: Oh. If I was building Iron Man and War Machine.
Tony Stark: [Interupting Harley] It's Iron Patriot now.
Harley Keener: That's way cooler!
Tony Stark: No, it's not.
Harley Keener: Anyways, I would have added in um... the retro...
Tony Stark: Retroreflective panels?
Harley Keener: To make him stealth mode.
Tony Stark: You want a stealth mode?
Harley Keener: Cool, right?
Tony Stark: That's actually a good idea. Maybe I'll build one.
Harley Keener: [as he touches the suit, Harley accidentally snaps off one of its fingers] Oops!
Tony Stark: Not a good idea! What are you doing? You're gonna break his finger? He's in pain, he's been injured. Leave him alone.
Harley Keener: S...Sorry.
Tony Stark: Are you? Don't worry about it, I'll fix it. So, uh, who's home?
Harley Keener: Well, my mom already left for the diner and dad went to 7-Eleven to get scratchers. I... I guess he won, 'cause that was six years ago.
Tony Stark: Mm. Which happens, dads leave. No need to be a pussy about it. Here's what I need: a laptop, a digital watch, a cell phone, the pneumatic actuator from your bazooka over there, a map of town, a big spring, and a tuna fish sandwich.
Harley Keener: What's in it for me?
Tony Stark: Salvation. What's his name?
Harley Keener: Who?
Tony Stark: The kid that bullies you at school, what's his name?
Harley Keener: How'd you know that?
Tony Stark: I got just the thing. [he opens a compartment on the suit and takes out a metal object] This is a pinata for a cricket. I'm kidding, it's a very powerful weapon. Point it away from your face, press the button on top. It discourages bullying. Non-lethal, just to cover one's ass. [Harley reaches out to take it, but Tony pulls his hand away] Deal? Deal? What'd you say?
Harley Keener: Deal.
Tony Stark: Deal? [Tony gives the object to Harley] What's you're name?
Harley Keener: Harley. And you're...
Tony Stark: The mechanic. Tony [Tony looks at Harley for a moment] You know what keeps going through my head? Where's my sandwich? [back at Tony's house, which is now surrounded by emergency rescue and news reporters, Pepper stands alone and looks out across the ocean. She sees one of Tony's shattered Iron Man helmets and pulls it towards her, her forehead resting against the helmet's. She sees a red flashing light inside the helmet and as she puts the helmet on she receives the message Tony had left her earlier]
Computer Voice: Stark Secure Server. Retinal scan: Verified.
Tony Stark: Pepper, it's me. [Pepper gasps and smiles] I've got a lot of apologies to make and not a lot of time. So first off, I'm so sorry I put you in harm's way. That was selfish and stupid and it won't happen again.
[later that night as Pepper drives Maya home]
Pepper Potts: Why were you at the house tonight? What was so important that you had to speak to Tony?
Maya Hansen: [A beat] I think that my boss is working for the Mandarin. So if you still want to talk about it, I suggest that we get ourselves someplace safe.
Pepper Potts: Your boss works for the Mandarin, you think? But Tony says you're a botanist, so...
Maya Hansen: That figures. What I actually am is a biological DNA coder running a team of forty out of a privately-funded think tank, but sure you can call me a botanist.
Pepper Potts: This boss of yours, does he have a name?
Maya Hansen: Yeah, Aldrich Killian. [Pepper looks at her in shock]
[we see Aldrich talking on the phone to Savin]
Savin: Well, we took the house down, sir...
Aldrich Killian: Mmhmm.
Savin: But there's no sign of a body.
Aldrich Killian: I see.
Savin: No Stark.
Aldrich Killian: I have to go. [Aldrich rises from his seat walks towards another room] The Master is about to record and he's a little... Well, you know how he gets. Keep your appointment tonight and call me when it's done. [Aldrich walks into a room which has been set up as a set with all of Mandarin's props in place and camera crew ready to record Mandarin's message] Alright everybody. No talking and no eye contact, unless you wanna get shot in the face.
[we then see the Mandarin arrive with his entourage and enter the house]
Mandarin Look-Out: The Master is travelling. [the Mandarin arrives on set and takes a sit, he looks at Aldrich]
The Mandarin: Well then. What are we waiting for?
[in Rose Hills, Tennessee, Tony and Harley walk in town at night]
Tony Stark: The sandwich was fair, the spring was a little rusty, the rest of the materials, I'll make do. By the way, when you said your sister had a watch, I was kinda hoping for something a little more than that. [he pulls his sleeve up and we see he's wearing a little girl's pink watch, Harley laughs]
Harley Keener: She's six! Anyway, it's limited edition. When can we talk about New York?
Tony Stark: Maybe never, relax about it.
Harley Keener: What about The Avengers, can you talk about them?
Tony Stark: I don't know, later. Hey kid, give me a little space. [they stop and Tony looks at the remains of the local explosion site that Tony came to investigate] What's the official story here? What happened?
Harley Keener: I guess this guy named Chad Davis, used to live roundabouts, won a bunch of medals in the army. One day, folks said he went crazy and made, you know, a bomb. Then he blew himself up right here. [Tony looks around at the remains]
Tony Stark: Six people died, right?
Harley Keener: Yeah.
Tony Stark: Including Chad Davis?
Harley Keener: Yeah. [Tony keeps looking around at the remains of the explosion site]
Tony Stark: Yeah. That doesn't make sense. [he sits next to Harley] Think about it. Six dead, only five shadows.
Harley Keener: Yeah, people said these shadows are like the mark of souls gone to Heaven. Except the bomb guy, he went to Hell on account of he didn't get a shadow. That's why there's only five.
Tony Stark: Do you buy that?
Harley Keener: That's what everyone says. You know what this crater reminds me of?
Tony Stark: No idea. I'm not...I don't care.
Harley Keener: That giant wormhole, in um...in New York. Does it remind you?
Tony Stark: That's manipulative. I don't want to talk about it.
Harley Keener: Are they coming back? The aliens?
Tony Stark: Maybe. Can you stop? Remember when I told you, that I have an anxiety issue?
Harley Keener: Does this subject make you...make you edgy?
Tony Stark: Yeah, a little bit. Can I just catch my breath for a second?
Harley Keener: Are there bad guys in Rose Hills? Do you...do you need a plastic bag to breathe into? Do you have medication?
Tony Stark: Nope.
Harley Keener: Do you need to be on it?
Tony Stark: Probably.
Harley Keener: Do you have PTSD?
Tony Stark: I don't think so.
Harley Keener: Are you...are you going completely mental? I can stop, do you want me to stop? Do you want me to stop?
Tony Stark: Remember when I said to stop doing that? I swear to God, you're going to freak me out! [Tony, looking agitated, suddenly rises] Ah man, you did it, didn't you? You happy now?
Harley Keener: What did I say? [Tony starts running off and Harley runs after him] Hey, wait up! Wait, wait. [Tony stops running and Harley catches up with him] What the hell was that? [Tony holds his face in his hands for a moment and then throws some snow at Harley]
Tony Stark: Your fault, you spazzed me out. Okay, back to business. Where were we? The guy who died...relatives? Mom? Mrs. Davis, where is she?
Harley Keener: Where she always is.
Tony Stark: See, now you're being helpful. [later we see Tony walking towards a bar and he bumps into a woman] Sorry. [the woman drops something] Lady, this uh... [he picks up the item and hands it back to the woman]
Brandt: Thank you. [Tony notices the woman has burn marks on one side of her face]
Tony Stark: Nice haircut, suits you.
Brandt: Nice watch.
Tony Stark: Yeah, limited edition.
Brandt: Oh, I don't doubt it. [there's a moment's pause] Well, have a good evening. [the woman turns and walks off] [Tony enters the bar and walks up to Mrs. Davis, who's sat at table drinking alone]
Tony Stark: Mrs. Davis, mind if I join you?
Mrs. Davis: Free country.
Tony Stark: It sure is. [Tony sits next to her, Mrs. Davis looks at Tony for a moment]
Mrs. Davis: Alright. Where'd you like to start?
Tony Stark: I just want to say I'm sorry about your loss. I want to know what you think happened.
Mrs. Davis: Look, I brought your damn file. You take it and go. [she drops the file in front of him] Whatever was in here, he wanted no part of it. [Tony opens the file]
Tony Stark: Clearly, you're waiting for someone else. Yeah? Supposed to meet somebody here?
Mrs. Davis: Yeah. [Tony looks at the file again and notices a photo of Taggart next to the photo of Chad]
Tony Stark: Mrs. Davis, your son didn't kill himself, I guarantee you. He didn't kill anyone. Someone used him.
Mrs. Davis: What?
Tony Stark: As a weapon.
Mrs. Davis: You're not the person who called me after all, are you? [suddenly a cell phone is slammed on their table]
Brandt: Actually, I am. [Tony looks up and it's the woman he bumped into outside the bar] [suddenly Brandt grabs hold of Tony's arm and twists it, slamming his head onto the table, Tony manages to quickly grab hold of Chad's dog tags that were on the table]
Rose Hills Sheriff: Hey, hey, hey! What's all this about? What the hell's going on here?
Brandt: It's called an arrest. [she pushes Tony to the ground and steps towards the Sheriff] Sheriff, is it?
Rose Hills Sheriff: Yes ma'am, it is. And you are?
Brandt: Homeland Security. [she holds up her badge] We good here?
Rose Hills Sheriff: No, we're not good. I need a little more information than that.
Brandt: Well, I think it's a little above your pay grade, Sheriff.
Rose Hills Sheriff: Yeah, well, why don't you get on the horn to Nashville and uh...upgrade me? [Tony gestures to Mrs. Davis to hide the file, she pushes it under the bar]
Brandt: Alright, you know what? I was hoping to do this the smart way, but uh...the fun way's always good. [Tony notices her hand turning red hot, burning the badge in her hand]
Rose Hills Sheriff: Deputy, get this woman and... [suddenly Brandt shoves the hot badge into the Sheriff's face, she takes his gun and shoots him, Tony runs out of the bar and Brandt follows him, he turns to her]
Tony Stark: Hey hot wings, you wanna party? You and me, let's go. [as Tony turns to run again he sees Savin getting out of a car and walk towards him, as Savin gets his gun out to shoot at him, Tony runs off and Harley throws something at Savin to make him miss Tony, Tony stops behind a car and sees a man hiding low on the ground] Crazy, huh?
Rose Hill Christmas Tree Shopper: Yeah.
Tony Stark: Watch this. [Tony smashes into the window of a shop] [as Tony and Brandt are fighting in the shop, Tony starts a fire in shop] You walked right into this one, I've dated hotter chicks than you. [Tony puts Chad's dog tags into the microwave and he turns on the gas]
Brandt: That's all you got? Cheap trick and a cheesy one-liner?
Tony Stark: Sweetheart, that could be the name of my autobiography. [Tony quickly leaves through the back door, as the dog tags heat up in the microwave they start sparking up fire, Brandt realizes the gas has been left on and suddenly the shop explodes killing Brandt] [Tony stumbles out of the shop as people run past. A water tank falls down and traps Tony's leg. He finds that Savin has grabbed Harley]
Harley Keener: Let me go! [Savin mocks Harley]
Savin: Help me! Help me! [as Tony's leg is trapped under some rubble, Savin sits in front of him with Harley sat on his lap] Hey kid, what would you like for Christmas?
Harley Keener: Mr. Stark, I am so sorry!
Savin: Oh. No, no. I think he was trying to say, "I want my god damn file."
Tony Stark: It's not your fault, kid. Remember what I told you about bullies. [Harley uses the gadget Tony gave him earlier and runs away] Do you like that, Westworld? That's the thing about smart guys, we always cover our ass. [Tony brings up his hand and reveals his Iron Man suit hand. He fires at Savin and sends him flying backwards. Tony makes his way out of the rubble before leaving.]
Harley Keener: You're welcome
Tony Stark: For what? Did I miss something?
Harley Keener: Me saving your life
Tony Stark: Yeah. A, saved you first. B, thanks, sort of. And C, if you do someone a solid, don't be a yutz, alright? Just play it cool otherwise you come off grandiose.
Harley Keener: Unlike you? Admit it, you need me. We're connected.
Tony Stark: What I need is for you to go home, be with your mom, keep your trap shut, guard the suit and stay connected to the telephone because if I call, you better pick up. Okay, can you feel that? We're done here. Move it out the way or I'm going to run you over. Bye kid. [Tony gets in his car] I'm sorry, kid, you did good.
Harley Keener: So now you're just going to leave me here, like my dad?
Tony Stark: Yep [A beat] Wait, you're guilt tripping me, aren't you?
Harley Keener: [Childishly] I'm cold.
Tony Stark: [Mocking him] I can tell. You know how I can tell? Cus we're connected. [Tony drives away]
Harley Keener: It was worth a shot.
[Savin wakes up, coughing and healed from Extremis. His face glows red.] [During an advert, the Mandarin takes over the satellite.]
Government Employee: Mr Vice President, I think you should see this.
Vice President: Oh god, not again. Is the President getting this?
[On a plane, the President looks at a TV is shock.]
The Mandarin: Mr President. Only two lessons remain and I intend to finish this before Christmas morning. Meet Thomas Richards. [The screen zooms out to show a man lying on the floor while Mandarin points a gun at him] Good strong name. Good strong job. Thomas, here, is an accountant for the Roxxon Oil Corporation. [Thomas sobs] But I'm sure he's a really good guy. I'm going to shoot him in the head, live on your television in 30 seconds.
Thomas Richards: No!
The Mandarin: The number for this telephone is in your cell phone. Exciting, isn't it, imagining how it got there? America, if your president calls me in the next half-minute, Tom lives. Go!
Government Official #1: How did he hack my phone?
Government Official #2: We can't allow terrorists to dictate...
President Ellis: I have to make this call.
Government Official #2: I'd strongly advise against that.
President Ellis: This is the right thing to do. [The phone rings but Mandarin doesn't answer. He waits for a few seconds before firing the gun.]
The Mandarin: There's just one lesson left, President Ellis. So run away, hide, kiss your children goodbye. Because nothing, not your army, not your red, white and blue attack dog, can save you. I'll see you soon.
President Ellis: Tell Rhodes, find this lunatic right now.
Military Aide: Sir, we tracked the broadcast signal. We have a possible point of origin in Pakistan and the Patriot is ready to strike.
President Ellis: Right now.
Military Aide: Yes, sir.
(Tony Stark is reading over some files in a car. He sighs.)
Tony Stark: Man. Happy, Happy, Happy-
(Rhodey, suited in his Iron Patriot armor, kicks down a door & marches forwards.)
Rhodey: Don't move! (His phone rings.) Uh... Hang on a second. Hello?
Tony Stark: You ever have a chick straddling you and you look up and suddenly she's glowing from the inside out, kind of a bright orange?
Rhodey: Yeah, I've had that. Who is this?
Tony Stark: It's me, pal. Now, last time I went missing, if I remember correctly, you came looking for me. What are you doing?
Rhodey: A little knock-and-talk, making friends in Pakistan. What are you doing?
Tony Stark: Your redesign, your big rebrand, that was AIM, right?
Rhodey: Yeah.
Tony Stark: I'm gonna find a heavy-duty comm sat right now, I need your login.
Rhodey: It's the same as it's always been, "WarMachine68."
Tony Stark: And password, please.
Rhodey: Well, look, I gotta change it every time you hack in, Tony.
Tony Stark: It's not the '80s, nobody says "hack" any more. Give me your login. (Rhodey sighs.)
Rhodey: "WAR MACHINE ROX" with an "X," all caps.
Tony Stark: (He's laughing.) That is so much better than "lron Patriot."
EMCEE: Very nice. Very nice. I have one question for you. What would you like for Christmas this year?
Elk Ridge: Well, David...
Crew: Do not erase a programme from my DVR unless you are 100% sure...
EMCEE: One more time! Ms Elk Ridge, everybody! All right.
Cameraman: Because you erase my shows!
Tony Stark: That ain't gonna cut it.
Cameraman: We talked about this. Excuse me, sir. I don't know who... (Tony turns around.)
Tony Stark: Shh.
Cameraman: Mom, I need to call you back. Something magical is happening. Tony Stark is in my van.
Tony Stark: Shh. Keep it down.
Cameraman: Tony Stark is in my van!
Tony Stark: No, he's not.
Cameraman: I knew you were still alive!
Tony Stark: Come on in. Close the door. (The cameraman gets in the van & closes the door.) Shh...
Cameraman: Oh, wow. Can I just say, sir...
Tony Stark: Yep.
Cameraman: I am your biggest fan.
Tony Stark: Okay. First, is this your van? Is anyone else gonna come in?
Cameraman: No, no, no. Just us.
Tony Stark: Great. What's your name?
Cameraman: Gary
Tony Stark: Gary?
Gary: Oh, wow.
Tony Stark: Right there is fine.
Gary: Okay.
Tony Stark: Okay? I get a lot of this, it's okay.
Gary: Oh, good. Can I just say?
Tony Stark: What do you want?
Gary: Yeah. I don't know if you can tell, but I have, like, patterned my whole look after you. My hair's a little...
Tony Stark: It's fine.
Gary: It's not right, 'cause there's no product in it.
Tony Stark: Right.
Gary: I don't want to make things awkward for you, but I do have to show you... Boom!
Tony Stark: A Hispanic Scott Baio. I'm sorry. Is that me?
Gary: Yeah. It's... I mean... I had them do it off a doll that I made, so it's not like it's off a picture. So it's a little bit...
Tony Stark: Gary. Listen to me, okay? I don't want to clip your wings, here. We're both a little over-excited. I got an issue. I'm chasing bad guys. I'm trying to grab a little something from some hard-crypt data files. I don't have enough juice. I need you to jump on the roof... Right? Recalibrate the lSDNs. Pump it up by about 40%.
Gary: Got it.
Tony Stark: All right? It's a mission.
Gary: Yeah.
Tony Stark: Tony needs Gary.
Gary: And Gary needs Tony.
Tony Stark: Be quiet about it. Go.
Gary: Yeah.
(Tony types on the keyboard & accesses the files he needs. A video starts playing.)
Aldrich Killian: What would you regard as the defining moment of your life?
Chad Davis: Well, uh, I think that would be the day I decided not to let my injury beat me. (Tony types again and another video shows up.)
Aldrich Killian: Will you please state your name for the camera?
Brandt: Ellen Brandt.
Aldrich Killian: Okay. So, the injections are administered periodically. Addiction will not be tolerated. And those who cannot regulate will be out from the programme. (More typing, another video.) Once misfits, cripples... You are the next iteration of human evolution. Everybody, before we start... I promise you, looking back at your life, there will be nothing as bitter as the memory of that glorious risk you prudently elected to forego. Today is your glory- Let's begin. (Brandt's missing arm grows back as she glows red. The other volunteers glow red & scream too.) We gotta get out of here! We gotta get out of here! Get her out! Get them out of here! (One of the volunteers exploads.)
Tony Stark: (He's muttering.) A bomb is not a bomb when it's a misfire. The stuff doesn't always work. Right, pal? It's faulty, but you found a buyer, didn't you? Sold it to the Mandarin. Got you, pal.
(Pepper and Maya are in a bedroom talking.)
Maya Hansen: What happened? Fun fact. Before he built rockets for the Nazis, the idealistic Wernher von Braun dreamed of space travel. He stargazed. Do you know what he said when the first V-2 hit London? "The rocket performed perfectly. It just landed on the wrong planet." See, we all begin wide-eyed. Pure science. And then the ego steps in, the obsession. And you look up, you're a long way from shore.
Pepper Potts: You can't be too hard on yourself, Maya. I mean, you gave your research to a think tank.
Maya Hansen: Yeah, but Killian built that think tank on military contracts.
Pepper Potts: That's exactly what we used to do. So, don't judge yourself.
Maya Hansen: Thank you, Pepper. I really appreciate that. (Someone knocks on the door & Pepper looks over. She gets up & opens the door. Room service pushes in a tray of food but Killain appears & snaps his neck. Pepper gasps.)
Pepper Potts: Maya, run! [Killian grabs Pepper by the arm, spins her around and slams her against the wall, holding her by the neck.
Aldrich Killian: Hi, Pepper. (To Maya) So, you want to tell me why you were at Stark's mansion last night?
Maya Hansen: I'm trying to fix this thing. I didn't know you and the master were gonna blow the place up.
Aldrich Killian: Oh, I see. So, you were trying to save Stark when he threatened us?
Maya Hansen: I've told you, Killian, we can use him.
Aldrich Killian: Pepper. Pepper. Pepper.
Maya Hansen: Look, if we want to launch product next year, I need Stark. He just lacked a decent incentive. Now, he has one.
[Rhodey flies across the sky in his Iron Patriot armor.]
Man: [On radio] This is support team Blue-Zero. Sending coordinates for a suspected Mandarin broadcast point of origin.
Rhodey: Copy. [Repulsor firing, people shrieking] Nobody move. [Women exclaiming in fear] Oh. Support Blue-Zero, unless the Mandarin's next attack on the U.S. involves cheaply-made sportswear, I think you messed up again. Yes, you're free, uh, if you weren't before. It's... Of course. Yes, ma'am. Iron Patriot on the job. Happy to help. No need to thank me, ma'am. It's my pleasure. [One of the women shakes Rhodey's hand and her hand glows red. Rhodey falls backwards, grunting.]
Woman: Savin? I've acquired the Patriot armour.
Rhodey: If you want this suit, you're going to have to pry my cold dead body out of it.
Woman: That's the plan, Colonel.
Tony Stark: Harley, tell me what's happening. Give me a full report.
Harley Keener: Yeah, I'm still eating that candy. Do you want me to keep eating it?
Tony Stark: How much have you had?
Harley Keener: Two or three bowls.
Tony Stark: Can you still see straight?
Harley Keener: Sort of.
Tony Stark: That means you're fine. Give me Jarvis. Jarvis, how are we?
JARVIS: It's totally fine, sir. I seem to do quite well for a stretch, and then at the end of the sentence I say the wrong cranberry. And, sir, you were right. Once I factored in available AIM downlink facilities I was able to pinpoint the Mandarin's broadcast signal.
Tony Stark: What are we talking? Far East, Europe, North Africa, Iran, Pakistan, Syria? Where is it?
JARVIS: Actually, sir, it's in Miami.
Tony Stark: Okay, kid, I'm gonna have to walk you through rebooting Jarvis's speech drive, but not right now. Harley, where is he really? Just look on the screen and tell me where it is.
Harley Keener: Um, it does say Miami, Florida.
Tony Stark: Okay, first things first, I need the armour. Where are we at with it?
Harley Keener: Uh, it's not charging. [Tony pulls over to the side of the road, heavy breathing]
JARVIS: Actually, sir, it is charging, but the power source is questionable. It may not succeed in revitalising the Mark 42.
Tony Stark: What's questionable about electricity? All right? It's my suit, and I can't... I'm not gonna... I don't wanna... [Breathing heavily] Oh, God, not again.
Harley Keener: Tony? [Tony gets out of the car] Are you having another attack? I didn't even mention New York.
Tony Stark: Right, and then you just said it by name while denying having said it.
Harley Keener: Okay, um, uh...
Tony Stark: [Panting] God, what am I gonna do?
Harley Keener: Just breathe. Really, just breathe. You're a mechanic, right?
Tony Stark: Right.
Harley Keener: You said so.
Tony Stark: Yes, I did.
Harley Keener: Why don't you just build something?
Tony Stark: Okay. Thanks, kid. [He gets back in the car.] [Cut to Tony in a shop buying supplies.] [Cut to Tony building something.] [Cut to Miama, Florida. Tony climbs a wall and begins fighting guards. He makes his way into the house and finds a woman lying on a table.] [Cut to a different woman lying on a sofa with a man sitting at a desk.]
Woman: Why is it so hot in here? I told you to put it at 68.
Man: [Scoffs] My fault again. Let me tell you something, sweetheart. I am not your personal air con... [Tony puts a gloved hand on his head, electrocuting him. He gets the gun and leaves the room. He makes his way to the bedroom and pulls the duvet off the bed, revealling two girls. Tony sushes them and the toilet flushes.]
The Mandarin: Well, I wouldn't go in there for 20 minutes. [He laughs] Now, which one of you is Vanessa?
Vanessa: That's me.
The Mandarin: Ah! Nessie. Did you know that fortune cookies aren't even Chinese?
Vanessa: There's some guy over here.
The Mandarin: They're made by Americans, based on a Japanese recipe.
Tony Stark: Hey! [Mandarin raises his hands]
The Mandarin: Bloody hell. Bloody hell.
Tony Stark: Don't move.
The Mandarin: I'm not moving. You want something? Take it. Although the guns are all fake because those wankers wouldn't trust me with the real ones.
Tony Stark: What?
The Mandarin: Hey, do you fancy either of the birds?
Tony Stark: Heard enough. You're not him. The Mandarin, the real guy. Where? Where's the Mandarin? Where is he?
The Mandarin: Whoa, whoa, whoa. He's here. He's here, but he's not here. He's here, but he's not here.
Tony Stark: What do you mean?
The Mandarin: It's complicated. Hey, it's complicated.
Tony Stark: It is?
The Mandarin: It's complicated.
Tony Stark: Uncomplicate it. Ladies, out. Get out of the bed. Get into the bathroom. Sit. [Door closes. Gunshot. Women exclaim in fear]
The Mandarin: My name is Trevor. Trevor Slattery.
Tony Stark: What are you? What are you, a decoy? You're a double, right?
Trevor Slattery: What, you mean like an understudy? No, absolutely not. [Tony points the gun at Trevor's face] Don't hurt the face! I'm an actor.
Tony Stark: You got a minute to live. Fill it with words.
Trevor Slattery: It's just a role. "The Mandarin," see, it's not real.
Tony Stark: Then how did you get here, Trevor?
Trevor Slattery: Um. Well, I, um, had a little problem with, um, substances. And I ended up, um, doing things, no two ways about it, in the street, that a man shouldn't do.
Tony Stark: Next?
Trevor Slattery: Then, they approached me about the role, and they knew about the drugs.
Tony Stark: What did they say? They'd get you off them?
Trevor Slattery: They said they'd give me more. They gave me things. They gave me this palace. They gave me plastic surgery. They gave me things. [Snoring]
Tony Stark: Did you just nod off? Hey. [Tony kicks him]
Trevor Slattery: No, and a lovely speedboat. And the thing was, he needed someone to take credit for some accidental explosions. [Mimic explosion]
Tony Stark: "He"? Killian?
Trevor Slattery: Killian.
Tony Stark: He created you?
Trevor Slattery: He created me.
Tony Stark: Custom-made terror threat.
Trevor Slattery: Yes. Yes. His think tank thinked it up. The pathology of a serial killer. The manipulation of Western iconography. Ready for another lesson? Blah, blah, blah. No. Of course, it was my performance that brought the Mandarin to life.
Tony Stark: Your performance? Where people died?
Trevor Slattery: No, they didn't. Look around you. The costumes, green screen. Honestly, I wasn't on location for half this stuff. And when I was, it was movie magic, love.
Tony Stark: I'm sorry, but I got a best friend who's in a coma and he might not wake up. So you're gonna have to answer for that. You're still going down, pal. You under... [Savin hits Tony around the head, unconcious]
Savin: Okay, Trevor, what did you tell him?
Trevor Slattery: I didn't tell him anything.
Savin: Nothing?
Trevor Slattery: No.
Savin: You should have pressed the panic button.
Trevor Slattery: Well, I panicked, but then I handled it.
Tony Stark: Ah... [Sighs] Okay.
Maya Hansen: It's just like old times, huh?
Tony Stark: Oh, yeah. With zip ties. It's a ball.
Maya Hansen: It wasn't my idea.
Tony Stark: Okay. So you took Killian's card.
Maya Hansen: I took his money.
Tony Stark: And here you are 13 years later, in a dungeon.
Maya Hansen: No.
Tony Stark: Yeah.
Maya Hansen: No, you're in a dungeon. I'm free to go.
Tony Stark: Yeah?
Maya Hansen: [Sighs and walks towards him] A lot has happened, Tony. But I'm close. Extremis is practically stabilised.
Tony Stark: [Shouting] I'm telling you it isn't. [Lowers voice to usual volume] I'm on the street. People are going bang. They're painting the walls. Maya, you're kidding yourself.
Maya Hansen: Then help me fix it. [She shows him the "You Know Who I Am" note he left in 1999.]
Tony Stark: Did I do that?
Maya Hansen: Yes.
Tony Stark: I remember the night, not the morning. Is this what you've been chasing around?
Maya Hansen: You don't remember?
Tony Stark: I can't help you. You used to have a moral psychology. You used to have ideals. You wanted to help people. Now look at you. I get to wake up every morning with someone who still has their soul. Get me out of here. Come on.
Aldrich Killian: You know what my old man used to say to me? One of his favourite of many sayings... "The early bird gets the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese."
Tony Stark: You're not still pissed off about the Switzerland thing, are you?
Aldrich Killian: How can I be pissed at you, Tony? I'm here to thank you. You gave me the greatest gift that anybody's ever given me. Desperation. If you think back to Switzerland, you said you'd meet me on the rooftop, right? Well, for the first 20 minutes, I actually thought you'd show up. And the next hour... I considered taking that one-step shortcut to the lobby. If you know what I mean.
Tony Stark: Honestly, I'm still trying to figure out what happened to the first mouse.
Aldrich Killian: But as I looked out over that city, nobody knew I was there, nobody could see me, no one was even looking. I had a thought that would guide me for years to come. Anonymity, Tony. Thanks to you, it's been my mantra ever since. Right? You simply rule from behind the scenes. Because the second you give evil a face, a bin Laden, a Gaddafi, a Mandarin, you hand the people a target.
Tony Stark: You're something else.
Aldrich Killian: You have met him, I assume?
Tony Stark: Yes. Sir Laurence Oblivier.
Aldrich Killian: I know he's a little over the top sometimes. It's not entirely my fault. He has a tenden... He's a stage actor. They say his Lear was the toast of Croydon, wherever that is. Anyway, the point is, ever since that big dude with the hammer fell out of the sky, subtlety has kind of had its day.
Tony Stark: What's next for you in your world?
Aldrich Killian: Well, I wanted to repay you the selfsame gift that you so graciously imparted to me. [Killian rolls three balls forwards and they stop, projecting an image of Pepper. She has Extremis.] Desperation. Now, this is live. I'm not sure if you can tell, but at this moment the body is trying to decide whether to accept Extremis or just give up. And if it gives up, I have to say, the detonation is quite spectacular. But until that point, it's really just a lot of pain. We haven't even talked salary yet. What kind of perk package are you thinking of?
Maya Hansen: Let him go.
Aldrich Killian: Hold on, hold on. Maya...
Maya Hansen: I said, let him go.
Aldrich Killian: What are you doing?
Maya Hansen: 1200 CCs. A dose half of this size, I'm dead.
Aldrich Killian: It's times like this my temper is tested somewhat. Maya, give me the injector.
Maya Hansen: If I die, Killian, what happens to your soldiers? What happens to your product?
Aldrich Killian: We're not doing this, okay?
Maya Hansen: What happens to you? What happens if you go too hot? [He looks back at Tony and shoots Maya]
Aldrich Killian: The good news is, a high-level position has just been vacated.
Tony Stark: You are a maniac.
Aldrich Killian: No, I'm a visionary. But I do own a maniac. And he takes the stage tonight. [Killian leaves and talks to Savin] Once we get the Patriot installed, it will take me nine or 10 minutes for the takedown.
Savin: Well, that's great, but the last time I looked there was somebody inside of it. [Whirring]
Aldrich Killian: Afternoon, gentlemen. [Whirring ceases] Hello, Colonel. Step aside. [Killian places his hand on the suit and it blows orange.] Oh! We'll get you out of there. Don't worry.
Savin: You'll damage the armour.
Aldrich Killian: Yes, I will. But you can fix it, right? I'm gonna take the Chinook to base camp. And I want Potts with me.
Savin: She's still in Phase Two.
Aldrich Killian: You're not going deaf, are you?
Tony Stark: [Watch beeping.] Careful, there. It's a limited edition. Hey, uh, Ponytail Express. What's the mileage count between Tennessee and Miami?
Guard #1: 832 miles.
Tony Stark: Very nice.
Guard #1: I'm good like that. Can you, uh, stop that?
Tony Stark: Break it, you bought it.
Guard #2: I think I bought it.
Tony Stark: Okay, that wasn't mine to give away. That belongs to my friend's sister. And that's why I'm gonna kill you first.
Guard #2: What are you gonna do to me?
Tony Stark: You'll see.
Guard #2: You're zip-tied to a bed. This. [Nothing happens.] That. [Nothing happens again]
Alrich Killian: Are you coming out?
Rhodey: [Panting and sweating] Do not open. Do not open. Don't open. Don't open. [Beeping.] All right. Let's go. [The suit opens, Rhodey jumps and punches Savin in the face, then kicks him. Killian glows red and breathes fire at Rhodey.] You... You breathe fire? Okay. [Savin knocks Rhodey unconcious.]
Aldrich Killian: It's a glorious day, Savin. This time tomorrow, I'll have the West's most powerful leader in one hand, and the world's most feared terrorist in the other. I'll own the war on terror. Create supply and demand. For you, for your brothers and sisters.
Tony Stark: Trust me, you're gonna be in a puddle of blood on the ground in five, four, three... Come on! Two...
Guard #2: How did we get this shift?
Tony Stark: All right, I'm gonna give you a chance to escape. Put down your weapons. Tie yourselves to those chairs. I'll let you live. In five, four, bang!
Guard #2: Wow. That was...
Tony Stark: You should be gone by now. You should've already been gone.
Guard #2: I am just beyond terrified.
Tony Stark: Here it comes. Three, four...
Guard #2: Shut up.
Tony Stark: [Quickly] Five, four, three, two, one! [The Iron Man suit joins to his left arm] Told you. Where's the rest? [He blasts one of the men and unties himself. As they fight, the suit connects to his right leg and he kicks them] Where's the rest? [Meanwhile, Harley watches as the garage door shakes. He runs over and blows it open. The suit flies out.] [Repulsor powering up, gunfire, screaming.]
Man: Honestly, I hate working here. They are so weird. [Tony leaves.]
Tony Stark: Ah! Better late than never. [He gets outside and catches the face mask.] Not this time. Not the face. Phew! It's good to be back. Hello, by the way.
JARVIS: Oh, hello, sir.
Guard: [Beeping, Rhodey wakes up.] All personnel, Stark is loose and somewhere in the compound. Repeat, Stark is loose and somewhere in the compound.
Tony Stark: Ah! Let's go! [Thrusters misfiring.] Aw, crap.
Rhodey: Tony?
Tony Stark: Rhodey, tell me that was you in the suit.
Rhodey: No. You got yours'?
Tony Stark: Uh... Mmm. Kind of. Main house, as fast as you can. There's somebody I'd like you to meet.
Rhodey: You, you, you! Move! Get out!
Tony Stark: [Girls whimpering] The room is secure. I have eyes on the Mandarin.
Rhodey: What's this? I had winners. [Gunshots. Trevor wakes up and begins drinking beer again.]
Tony Stark: What have you come as?
Rhodey: You make a move, and I break your face.
Tony Stark:I never thought people had been hurt. They lied to me.
Rhodey: This is the Mandarin?
Tony Stark:Yeah, I know, it's... It's embarrassing.
Trevor Slattery: Hi, Trevor. Trevor Slattery. I know I'm shorter in person. A bit smaller. Everyone says that. But, um, hey, if you're here to arrest me, there's some people I'd like to roll on.
Tony Stark:Here's how it works, Meryl Streep.
Rhodey: You tell him where Pepper is and he'll stop doing it.
Trevor Slattery: Doing what? Ow, I get it! Ow! That hurt. I get it! I get it! I don't know about any Pepper, but I know about the plan.
Tony Stark: Spill.
Rhodey: Do you know what they did to my suit?
Tony Stark: What? No. But I do know it's happening off the coast. Something to do with a big boat. I can take you there.
Trevor Slattery: Woah! [Rhodey jumps.] Ole', ole', ole', ole'...
Rhodey: Tony, I swear to God, I'm gonna blow his face off.
Tony Stark: Oh, and this next bit may include the vice president as well. Is that... Is that important?
Rhodey: Yeah, a little bit.
Tony Stark: So?
Rhodey: What are we gonna do? I mean, we don't have any transport.
Tony Stark: Right. [Beer opens] Hey, Ringo. Didn't you say something about a "lovely speedboat"? If he's right about the location, we're 20 minutes from where Pepper is.
Rhodey: But we also have to figure out this vice president thing, right?
Tony Stark: Right. I wonder who I'm calling right now. Oh! That's the vice president.
Vice President: Thanks. Hello?
Tony Stark: Sir, this is Tony Stark.
Vice President: Welcome back to the land of the living.
Tony Stark: We believe you're about to be drawn into the Mandarin campaign. We gotta get you somewhere safe as soon as possible.
Vice President: Mr Stark, I'm about to eat honey-roast ham, surrounded by the Agency's finest. The president's safe on Air Force One with Colonel Rhodes. I think we're good, here.
Rhodey: Sir, this is Colonel Rhodes. They're using the Iron Patriot as a Trojan horse. They're gonna take out the president somehow. We have to immediately alert that plane.
Vice President: Okay, I'm on it. I'll have security lock it down. If need be, they can have F-22s in the air in 30 seconds. Thank you, Colonel.
Rhodey: Rhodes and Stark out.
Man: Everything okay, sir?
Vice President: Couldn't be better. (To his daughter) I love you, babe.
[The Iron Patriot lands and walks towards President Ellis]
President Ellis: Colonel Rhodes. [Salutes] Glad to see you could make it, son. I feel safer already.
Rhodey: We gotta make a decision. We can either save the president, or Pepper. We can't do both.
JARVIS: Sir, I have an update from Malibu. The cranes have finally arrived, and the cellar doors are being cleared as we speak.
Tony Stark: And what about the suit I'm wearing?
JARVIS: The armour is now at 92%.
Tony Stark: That's going to have to do.
[The Iron Patient's arm opens and the suit wearer puts their hand against the door handle on a plane, burning it.]
Military Aide: Everything all right, Colonel? [Iron Patriot kills the aide and people begin shooting at him. He kills everyone beside the President. The helmet lifts up to reveal Savin.
Savin: It is an honour, Mr President.
President Ellis: If you're gonna do it, do it!
Savin: Whoa! Cool your boots, sir. That's not how the Mandarin works.
Officer: Sir, Air Force One has been compromised. Internal shots, temperature spikes.
Officer #2: Get me eyes on it now.
Officer: Image coming through now, sir.
Officer #2: Was that Rhodes?
Man: Is anyone there?
Woman: Let us out! [Tony attacks Savin and pins him against the wall.]
Tony Stark: The President. Now.
Savin: He's not here. [Savin burns the Iron Man suit's arm. Electrical crackling, mechanisms grinding, soft groaning.] Try the jet stream? Speaking of which, go fish. [A door blasts open on the plane, people screaming, metal creaking, more screaming. Tony blasts Savin in the chest.]
Tony Stark: Walk away from that, you son of a bitch. [Savin falls to the ground.] How many in the air?
JARVIS: Thirteen, sir.
Tony Stark: How many can I carry?
JARVIS: Four, sir.
Tony Stark: Slow down. Slow down, relax. What's your name? Heather?
Heather: [Screaming] Oh, God! No! No!
Tony Stark: Listen to me. See that guy? I'm gonna swing by, you're just gonna grab him. You got it?
Heather: What? Oh!
Tony Stark: I'll electrify your arm, you won't be able to open your hand. We can do this, Heather. Easy, see? Eleven more to go. Remember that game called Barrel of Monkeys? That's what we're going to do.
JARVIS: 18,000 feet.
Tony Stark: Come on, people. Everybody, grab your monkey. Nice.
JARVIS: 10,000 feet. 6,000 feet.
Tony Stark: Come on, people. Come on, come on, come on! Yeah!
JARVIS: 1, 000 feet. 400 feet. 200 feet, sir.
Tony Stark: He's a chunky monkey, let's get him. Hello. [Tony drops them all in the water from a few feet above.]
Man: We made it!
Tony Stark: Nice work, guys! Excellent. Good team effort all around. Go us. All right, Jarvis. But it's only half-done. We've still got to get Pepper... [The Iron Man suit flies into a truck and the suit disassembles. He sighs.] That came out of nowhere. Wow [We now see Tony on the boat, where he was controlling the suit.]
Rhodey: Give me some good news, man.
Tony Stark: I think they all made it.
Rhodey: Oh, thank God.
Tony Stark: Yeah, but I missed the president.
Rhodey: You couldn't save the president with the suit, how are we gonna save Pepper with nothing?
Tony Stark: Uh... Say, Jarvis, is it that time?
JARVIS: The House Party Protocol, sir?
Tony Stark: Correct.
Aldrich Killian: [Pepper wakes up and gasps.] Hi.
Pepper Potts: [Breathing heavily.] You think he's gonna help you? He won't.
Aldrich Killian: Having you here is not just to motivate Tony Stark. It's, um... Well, it's actually more embarrassing than that. You're here as my, um...
Pepper Potts: Trophy
Aldrich Killian: [Chuckles.] Mmm. [Iron Patriot walks in and Pepper gasps.] Good evening, sir. [The armor opens and the President falls out.] Welcome aboard, Mr President. Ever hear of an elephant graveyard? Well, two years ago, the elephant in the room was this scow.
President Ellis: This is the Roxxon Norco.
Aldrich Killian:And, of course, you'll remember that when she spilled a million gallons of crude off Pensacola, thanks to you, not one fat cat saw a day in court.
President Ellis: What do you want from me?
Aldrich Killian: Uh, nothing, sir. I just needed a reason to kill you that would play well on TV. You see, I've moved on. I found myself a new political patron, and this time tomorrow, he'll have your job. String him up.
President Ellis: Hey!
Rhodey: [Climbs on to the boat.] Come on. You're not gonna freak out on me, right?
Tony Stark: I hope not.
Rhodey: Oh, my God. [Sighs] He's strung up over the oil tanker. They're gonna light him up, man.
Tony Stark: Viking funeral. Public execution.
Rhodey: Yeah, death by oil.
Announcer: (On PA) Broadcast will commence shortly. Take final positions.
Aldrich Killian: Okay. That's good. Now give me cameras A through E and we'll do a full tech rehearsal. (Technician typing)
Rhodey: ls your gun up?
Tony Stark: Yep. What do I do?
Rhodey: Stay on my six, cover high and don't shoot me in the back.
Tony Stark: Six, high, back. Alright. [Gunfire, bullets ricocheting] You see that? Nailed it.
Rhodey: Yeah, you really killed the glass.
Tony Stark: You think I was aiming for the bulb? You can't hit a bulb at this distance. [Rhodey fires a bullet and hits the bulb.]
Announcer: [On PA] All personnel, we have hostiles on east unit 12.
Man: Over there!
Announcer: [On PA] I repeat, hostiles on east unit 12.
Tony Stark: I'm out. Give me. You got extra magazines?
Rhodey: They're not universal, Tony.
Tony Stark: I know what I'm doing, I make this stuff. Give me another one.
Rhodey: Okay
Tony Stark: Give me one of yours.
Rhodey: I don't have one that fits that gun.
Tony Stark: You've got, like, five of them. Here's what I'm going to do. Save my spot, ready?
Rhodey: What'd you see?
Tony Stark: Too fast. Nothing. Here we go. [Clears throat] Three guys, one girl, all armed.
Rhodey: God, I would kill for some armour right now.
Tony Stark: You're right. We need backup.
Rhodey: Yeah, a bunch.
Tony Stark: You know what? [He nods at something in the distance, whooshing]
Rhodey: Is that...?
Tony Stark: Yep.
Rhodey: Are those...?
Tony Stark: Yeah. [Dozens of Iron Man suits fly over.] Merry Christmas, buddy. JARVIS, target Extremis heat signatures. Disable with extreme prejudice.
JARVIS: [Through armors] Yes, sir.
Tony Stark: What are you waiting for? It's Christmas. Take them to church.
JARVIS: Gentlemen. [Grunting, screaming.]
Tony Stark: Incoming! Jarvis, get Igor to steady this thing. [Mechanisms whirring.]
Rhodey: This is how you've been managing your down time, huh?
Tony Stark: Everybody needs a hobby. Heartbreaker, help Red Snapper out, will you? [Tony suits up.] Nice timing.
Rhodey: Oh, yeah. That's awesome. Give me a suit, okay?
Tony Stark: Oh, I'm sorry, they're only coded to me.
Rhodey: What does that mean?
Tony Stark: I got you covered.
JARVIS: Good evening, Colonel. Can I give you a lift?
Rhodey: Very funny.
JARVIS: Sir, I've located Ms Potts.
Tony Stark: About time.
Pepper Potts: [Gasps, panting.] Stop! Put it down. Put it down. Put it down.
Tony Stark: See what happens when you hang out with my ex-girlfriends?
Pepper Potts: You're such a jerk.
Tony Stark: Yep. We'll talk about it over dinner. [Metal creaking, Pepper sobbing.] Come on. A little more, baby. [Pepper straining, Tony grunting. Killian shoves his hand on Tony's suit, burning it.]
Aldrich Killian: Is this guy bothering you? Don't get up. Ooh. Is it hot in there? [Sizzling.] Stuck? Do you feel a little stuck? Like a little turtle, cooking in his little turtle suit.
Pepper Potts: Tony.
Aldrich Killian: She's watching. I think you should close your eyes. Close your eyes. Close your eyes. You don't want to see this. [Tony cuts off Killian's arm, it burns through the floor and Pepper falls down.]
Tony Stark: Yeah, you take a minute. [Groaning, sizzling, metal creaking, yelling, grunts, Pepper whimpers.] Jarvis, give me a suit right now! [The suit he called gets destroyed.] Oh, come on!
Rhodey: Mr President! Just hold on, all right? I'm coming. Just hold on. Hold on. [Gunfire] Oh, kay. Bye-bye. Brace yourself. You look damn good, Mr President, but I'm gonna need that suit back. The President is secure, Tony. I'm clearing the area.
Tony Stark: Nice work.
Rhodey: Ready, sir?
President Ellis: What do you mean "ready"? [Rhodey blasts off and the President screams.]
Tony Stark: Pep, I got you. Relax, I got you. Just look at me! Honey, I can't reach any further and you can't stay there. All right? You've got to let go. You've got to let go! I'll catch you, I promise. No! [Pepper falls to the ground and into the flames below.]
Aldrich Killian: A shame. I would've caught her. [Tony and Killian run towards each other. Killian jumps up to attack, Tony slides under and armors up. Repulsors firing, flesh burning, both grunting.]
Tony Stark: Eject. [More repulsors firing.]
Aldrich Killian: Well, here we are on the roof. [Killian slices the suit in half.]
JARVIS: Mark 42, inbound.
Tony Stark: I'll be damned. The prodigal son returns. [The suit flies to Tony, hits a piece of metal and falls apart. Rolls his eyes.] Whatever.
Aldrich Killian: You really didn't deserve her, Tony. It's a pity. I was so close to having her perfect.
Tony Stark: Okay, okay, wait, wait, wait! Slow down! Slow down! You're right. I don't deserve her. Here's where you're wrong. She was already perfect. [Tony motions to the suit and it flies on to Killian.] Jarvis, do me a favour and blow Mark 42.
Aldrich Killian: [Muffled screaming.] No! [He walks towards Tony, his flesh held together by flames.] No more false faces. You said you wanted the Mandarin. You're looking right at him. It was always me, Tony. Right from the start. *I AM THE MANDARIN!!!* [Someone hits Killian and he flies to the side. It's Pepper. Heavy breathing.]
Tony Stark: I got nothing. [Repulsor powering up.] Jarvis, subject at my 12 o'clock is not a target, disengage! What? Oh, what, are you mad at me? [Pepper runs towards Tony, flips in the air, punches through the Iron Man suit and destroys it. She uses the suit to blow up Killian.] Honey?
Pepper Potts: Oh, my God. That was really violent.
Tony Stark: You just scared the devil out of me. I thought you were...
Pepper Potts: I was dead. Why? Because I fell 200 feet? Who's the hot mess now?
Tony Stark: It's still debatable. Probably tipping your way a little bit. Why don't you dress like this at home? Hmm? Sport bra. The whole deal.
Pepper Potts: You know, I think I understand why you don't want to give up the suits. What am I going to complain about now?
Tony Stark: Well, it's me. You'll think of something. Come here.
Pepper Potts: No, don't touch me.
Tony Stark: Don't worry about it.
Pepper Potts: No, I'm gonna burn you.
Tony Stark: No, you're not. Not hot.
Pepper Potts: Am I gonna be okay?
Tony Stark: No. You're in a relationship with me. Everything will never be okay. But I think I can figure this out, yeah. I almost had this 20 years ago when I was drunk. I think I can get you better. That's what I do. I fix stuff.
Pepper Potts: And all your distractions?
Tony Stark: Uh... I'm going to shave them down a little bit. Jarvis. Hey.
JARVIS: All wrapped up here, sir. Will there be anything else?
Tony Stark: You know what to do.
JARVIS: The Clean Slate Protocol, sir?
Tony Stark: Screw it, it's Christmas. Yes, yes. [Pepper and Tony hug as the Iron Man suits blow up.] Okay, so far? Do you like it?
Pepper Potts: It'll do.
Tony Stark (V.O): And so, as Christmas morning began, my journey had reached its end. You start with something pure, something exciting. Then, come the mistakes. The compromises. We create our own demons.
Trevor Slattery: Oh! Great to see you! Oh, bloody hell!
Tony Stark (V.O): But then I thought to myself, "Why stop there?" Of course, there are people who say progress is dangerous, but I'll bet none of those idiots ever had to live with a chestful of shrapnel. And now, neither will I. Let me tell you,[Metal clinking.] that was the best sleep I'd had in years.
Nurse: [Happy wakes up, gasping and coughing.] It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
Happy Hogan: [Weak] No, look.
Tony Stark (V.O): [Throws Arc Reactor into the ocean.] So, if I were to wrap this up, tie it with a bow, or whatever... I guess I'd say my armor, it was never a distraction, or a hobby. It was a cocoon. And now, I'm a changed man. You can take away my house, all my tricks and toys. One thing you can't take away... I am Iron Man. [Thrilling music playing, credit scene.] You know, and thank you by the way. For listening. Plus, something about just getting it off my chest, and putting it out there in the atmosphere, instead of holding this in... I mean, this is what gets people sick, you know. Wow, I had no idea you were such a good listener.
Tony Stark: To be able to share all my intimate thoughts and my experiences with someone, it just cuts the weight of it in half. You know, it's like a snake swallowing its own tail. Everything comes full circle. [The camera zooms out to show Bruce Banner, asleep.] And the fact that you've been able to -help me process... [Tony stops and looks over as Bruce rubs his eyes.] Are you with me?
Bruce Banner: Sorry... I was, yeah. We were at, uh...
Tony Stark: Are you actively napping?
Bruce Banner: [Stammering] I was... I... I drifted.
Tony Stark: Where did I lose you?
Bruce Banner: Elevator in Switzerland.
Tony Stark: So, you heard none of it?
Bruce Banner: I'm sorry. I'm not that kind of doctor. I'm not a therapist. It's not my training.
Tony Stark: So?
Bruce Banner: I don't have the...
Tony Stark: What? The time?
Bruce Banner: Temperament.
Tony Stark: You know what? Now that I think about it... Oh! God, my original wound. 1983, all right?
Bruce Banner: Yes.
Tony Stark: I'm 14 years old, I still have a nanny. That was weird.Announcer: [announcement over speaker, set over Wanda and Pietro holding hands] Report to your stations immediately. This is not a drill. We are under attack. We are under attack. [the Avengers are in the process of infiltrating a HYDRA base in Sokovia, making their way through the woods and fighting soldiers]
Tony Stark: [Tony, flying up to the base in his suit, hits a forcefield.] Shit!
Steve Rogers: Language! JARVIS, what's the view from upstairs?
JARVIS: The central building is protected by some kind of energy shield. Strucker's technology is well beyond any other HYDRA base we've taken.
Thor: Loki's scepter must be here. Strucker couldn't mount this defense without it. At long last.
[Natasha knocks out some soldiers]
Natasha Romanoff: At long last is lasting a little long, boys.
Clint Barton: [as some soldiers shoot at him] Yeah. I think we lost the element of surprise.
Tony Stark: Wait a second. No one else is going to deal with the fact that Cap just said "language?"
Steve Rogers: I know. [Steve throws his bike at some soldiers driving up in their truck] It just slipped out.
[at the HYDRA Research Base, Sokovia, Eastern Europe]
Strucker: Who gave the order to attack?
Fortress Soldier: Herr Strucker, it's the Avengers.
Other Fortress Soldier: They landed in the far woods, the perimeter guard panicked.
Strucker: [to List] They have to be after the scepter. [to the soldier] Can we hold them?
Fortress Soldier: Theyre the Avengers!
Strucker: Deploy the rest of the tanks.
Fortress Soldier: Yes, sir.
Strucker: Concentrate fire on the weak ones. A hit can make them close ranks. [talking to Dr. List] Everything we've accomplished... But we're on the verge of our greatest breakthrough.
Dr. List: Then let's show them what we've accomplished. Send out the twins.
Strucker: It's too soon.
Dr. List: It's what they signed up for.
Strucker: My men can hold them.
[Stark flies to the HYDRA base to break in]
Jarvis: Sir, the city is taking fire.
Tony Stark: Well, we know Strucker's not going to worry about civilian casualties. Send in the Iron Legion.
Iron Legion: [the Iron Legion flies in; to the civilians] This quadrant is unsafe. Please back away. We are here to help. This quadrant is unsafe. Please back away. Please back away. We wish to avoid collateral damage and will inform you when this current conflict is resolved. We are here to help. [As the civilians chant "Avengers go home," a man throws a bottle of something corrosive at the Iron Legion, and it hits one of the bots in the head] We are here to help.
[Back at the HYDRA base; Strucker speaks to his soldiers]
Strucker: We will not yield. The Americans sent their circus freaks to test us. We will send them back in bags. No surrender!
Soldiers: No surrender!
Strucker: [quietly to List] I am going to surrender. You will delete everything. If we give the Avengers the weapons, they may not look too far into what we've been--
Dr. List: The twins.
Strucker: They are not ready to take on--
Dr. List: No, no. I mean... [he points to where Wanda and Pietro Maximoff were standing, but are now gone] Twins.
[Pietro speeds through the forest. He catches Bartons arrow as he shoots at a bunker, then circles back around and knocks down Barton]
Pietro Maximoff: You didn't see that coming?
[Pietro zooms off before Clint can shoot him with an arrow, then Barton gets shot at]
Natasha Romanoff: Clint!
[Pietro knocks down Steve as he speeds past him]
Steve Rogers: We have an enhanced in the field.
Natasha Romanoff: Clint's hit! [Natasha goes over to where Clint is lying down] Somebody want to deal with that bunker? [she sees the Hulk coming in, and he barrels through the bunker and destroys it] Thank you.
Steve Rogers: [as he's fighting with the soldiers] Stark, we really need to get inside.
Tony Stark: I'm closing in. JARVIS, am I...closing in? Do you see a power source for that shield?
JARVIS: There's a particle wave below the north tower.
Tony Stark: Great, I wanna poke it with something. [Stark blows up the forcefield the base] Drawbridge is down, people.
Thor: [to Steve] The enhanced?
Steve Rogers: He's a blur. All the new player's we've faced, I've never seen this. In fact, I still haven't.
Natasha Romanoff: Clint's hit pretty bad, guys. We're gonna need evac.
Thor: [to Steve] I can get Barton to the jet. The sooner we're gone the better. You and Stark secure the scepter.
Steve Rogers: Copy that.
Thor: [referring to the approaching soldiers in their HYDRA tank] It looks like they're lining up.
Steve Rogers: Well, they're excited. [Thor pounds on Steve's shield with his hammer and the resulting wave of force knocks down all the soldiers]
Thor: Find the scepter. [Thor flies off]
Tony Stark: And for gosh sake, watch your language!
Steve Rogers: [Steve sighs] That's not going away anytime soon.
[Stark enters the HYDRA base and the soldiers start firing at his Iron Man suit]
Tony Stark: Guys, stop, we gotta talk this through. [Stark shoots down the soldiers using rockets from his suit] It was a good talk.
Fortress Soldier: No it wasn't.
[Stark finds List and knocks him out, he then steps out of his Iron Man suit]
Tony Stark: Sentry mode. [he walks over to the computers] Okay, JARVIS. You know I want it all. Make sure you copy Hill at HQ.
Natasha Romanoff: We're locked down out here.
Steve Rogers: Then get to Banner, time for a lullaby.
[back at the HYDRA base]
Tony Stark: I know you're hiding more than files. Hey, J, give me an IR scan of the room, real quick.
JARVIS: The wall to your left...I'm reading steel reinforcement... and an air current.
Tony Stark: [to himself as he walks over to the wall] Please be a secret door, please be a secret door, please be a secret door... [he pushes and the wall opens up] Yay! [he enters through to a secret passageway]
[Natasha finds the Hulk]
Natasha Romanoff: Hey, big guy. The sun's getting real low. [the Hulk scowls at her, Natasha kneels in front of him and puts out her hand, the Hulk touches her hand and as she strokes his hand slowly he starts to calm down. He stumbles away and changes into Bruce Banner]
[Back at the HYDRA base Steve finds Strucker]
Steve Rogers: Baron Strucker. Hydra's number one thug.
Strucker: Technically, I'm a thug for SHIELD.
Steve Rogers: Well then technically you're unemployed. Where's Loki's scepter?
Strucker: Don't worry, I know when I'm beat. You'll mention how I cooperated, I hope.
Steve Rogers: I'll put it right under illegal human experimentation. [Wanda creeps up behind him] How many are there? Wanda knocks Steve down using her telekinetic powers, then quickly leaves] We have a second enhanced. Female. Do not engage. [he looks at Strucker]
Strucker: You'll have to be faster than-- [he's cut off mid-sentence when Steve uses his shield to knock him out]
Steve Rogers: Guys, I got Strucker.
Tony Stark: Yeah, I got... something bigger. [inside the secret passageway Stark finds a room with a variety of technology, as well as recovered artifacts from the Battle of New York, including a gigantic Chitauri leviathan and some of his scrapped armor. He then spots the scepter] Thor, I got eyes on the prize.
[Wanda creeps up behind him and uses her powers on him; suddenly the Chitauri corpse comes to life, and Stark sees the rest of the Avengers team are all laying on the floor dead. He goes over to Steve's body to check his pulse when Steve suddenly grabs him]
Steve Rogers: You could've saved us. [Steve dies but Stark continues to hear Steve's voice in his head] Why didn't you do more? [Stark sees that he is in the Chitauri realm, and that the Chitauri are invading Earth, when he snaps back to reality.]
[Wanda and Pietro watch as Tony summons his suit gauntlet.]
Pietro Maximoff: We're just gonna let them take it?
[Wanda smiles to herself as Tony takes the scepter.]
AVENGERS: AGE OF ULTRON TITLE CARD
[The Avengers are on an aircraft heading out of Sokovia, Natasha interrupts Banner who's listening to opera with his headphones]
Natasha Romanoff: Hey, the lullaby worked better than ever.
Bruce Banner: Just wasn't expecting the Code Green.
Natasha Romanoff: If you hadn't been there, there would've been double the casualties. My best friend would've been a treasured memory.
Bruce Banner: You know, sometimes exactly what I want to hear isn't exactly what I want to hear.
Natasha Romanoff: How long before you trust me?
Bruce Banner: It's not you I don't trust.
Natasha Romanoff: Thor, report on the Hulk?
Thor: The gates of Hel are filled with the screams of his victims. [Natasha glares at Thor and Banner groans in despair] Uh, but, not the screams of the dead, of course. No no, uh...wounded screams, mainly whimpering, a great deal of complaining and tales of sprained deltoids and, and uh... and gout.
Tony Stark: Hey Banner, Dr. Cho's on her way in from Seoul, is it okay if she sets up in your lab?
Bruce Banner: Uh, yeah, she knows her way around.
Tony Stark: Thanks. [to JARVIS] Tell her to prep everything, Barton's gonna need the full treatment.
JARVIS: Very good sir.
Tony Stark: JARVIS, take the wheel.
JARVIS: Yes, sir. Approach vector is locked.
Tony Stark: [to Thor and Steve, looking at the scepter] It feels good, yeah? I mean, you've been after this thing since SHIELD collapsed. Not that I haven't enjoyed our little raiding parties, but...
Thor: No, but this... this brings it to a close.
Steve Rogers: As soon as we find out what else this has been used for. I don't just mean weapons. Since when is Strucker capable of human enhancement?
Tony Stark: Banner and I'll give it the once before it goes back to Asgard. Is that cool with you? [Thor nods his head] I mean, just a few days until the farewell party. You're staying right?
Thor: Yes, yes, of course. A victory should be honored with revels.
Tony Stark: Yeah. Who doesn't love revels. Captain?
Steve Rogers: Hopefully this puts an end to the Chitauri and HYDRA, so. Yes, revels.
[The Avengers aircraft lands at the Avengers tower in New York where Barton is taken by Dr. Cho to have his wounds tended to; Maria walks up to Stark]
Maria Hill: Lab's all set up, boss.
Tony Stark: [pointing to Steve] Uh, actually, he's the boss. I just pay for everything, and design everything and make everyone look cooler.
Steve Rogers: What's the word on Strucker?
Maria Hill: NATO's got him.
Steve Rogers: The two enhanced?
Maria Hill: Wanda and Pietro Maximoff. Twins. Orphaned at ten when a shell collapsed their apartment building. Sokovia's had a rough history. It's nowhere special but it's on the way to everywhere special.
Steve Rogers: Their abilities?
Maria Hill: He's got increased metabolism and improved thermal homeostasis. Her thing is neural electric interfacing, telekinesis, mental manipulation. [Steve looks at her funny, and she rephrases the statement so he can understand] He's fast and she's weird.
Steve Rogers: Well, they're going to show up again.
Maria Hill: Agreed. File says they volunteered for Strucker's experiments. It's nuts.
Steve Rogers: Right. What kind of monster would let a German scientist experiment on them to protect their country?
Maria Hill: We're not at war, Captain.
Steve Rogers: They are.
Bruce Banner: [in Banner's lab; referring to Barton] How's he doing?
Tony Stark: Oh, unfortunately, he's still Barton.
Bruce Banner: That's terrible.
Tony Stark: He's fine. He's thirsty. [walking over to the computers] Alright. Look alive, JARVIS. It's play time. We've only got a couple days with this joystick so let's make the most of it. Update me on the structural and compositional analysis.
JARVIS: The scepter is alien. There are elements I can't quantify.
Tony Stark: So there's elements you can.
JARVIS: The jewel appears to be a protective housing for something inside. Something powerful.
Tony Stark: Like a reactor?
JARVIS: Like a computer. I believe I'm deciphering code.
Natasha Romanoff: [to Dr. Cho as she tends to Barton's wounds] You sure he's going to be okay? Pretending to need this guy really brings the team together.
Dr. Helen Cho: There's no possibility of deterioration. The nano-molecular functionality is instantaneous. His cells don't know they're bonding with simulacrum.
Bruce Banner: She's creating tissue.
Dr. Helen Cho: If you brought him to my lab, the regeneration Cradle could do this in twenty minutes.
Tony Stark: Oh, he's flatlining. Call it. Time?
Clint Barton: No, no, no. I'm going to live forever. I'm gonna be made of plastic.
Tony Stark: [Stark hands Barton a drink] Here's your beverage.
Dr. Helen Cho: You'll be made of you, Mr. Barton. Your own girlfriend won't be able to tell the difference.
Clint Barton: Well, I don't have a girlfriend.
Dr. Helen Cho: That I can't fix. This is the next thing, Tony. Your clunky metal suits are going to be left in the dust.
Tony Stark: Well, that is exactly the plan. And Helen, I expect to see you at the party on Saturday.
Dr. Helen Cho: Unlike you, I don't have a lot of time for parties. [she hesitates a moment before asking] Will Thor be there?
Bruce Banner: What's the rumpus?
Tony Stark: Well, the scepter. You see, we were wondering how Strucker got so inventive. So, I've been analyzing the gem inside-- You may recognize, [he brings up a 3D image of Jarvis's consciousness]
Bruce Banner: Jarvis.
JARVIS: Doctor.
Tony Stark: Started out, JARVIS was just a natural language UI. Now he runs the Iron Legion. He runs more of the business than anyone besides Pepper.
Bruce Banner: Oh?
Tony Stark: Top of the line.
Bruce Banner: Yes.
JARVIS: I suspect not for long.
Tony Stark: Meet the competition. [he brings up another 3D image of what's inside the scepter]
Bruce Banner: It's beautiful.
Tony Stark: If you had to guess, what's it look like it's doing?
Bruce Banner: Like it's thinking. I mean this could be a... it's not a human mind, it...
Tony Stark: Um-um.
Bruce Banner: I mean, look at this! They're like neurons firing.
Tony Stark: Down in Strucker's lab I saw some fairly advanced robotics work. They deep-sixed the data, but... I gotta guess he was knocking on a very particular door.
Bruce Banner: Artificial intelligence.
Tony Stark: This could be it, Bruce. This could be the key to creating Ultron.
Bruce Banner: I thought Ultron was a fantasy.
Tony Stark: Yesterday it was. If we can harness this power, apply it to my Iron Legion protocol.
Bruce Banner: That's a mad-sized if.
Tony Stark: Our job is "if." What if you were sipping margaritas on a sun-drenched beach turning brown instead of green? Not looking over your shoulder for VERONICA.
Bruce Banner: Don't hate, I helped design VERONICA.
Tony Stark: As a worst-case measure, right? How about a best-case? What if the world was safe? What if next time aliens roll up to the club, and they will, they couldn't get past the bouncer?
Bruce Banner: The only people threatening the planet would be people?
Tony Stark: I want to apply this to the Ultron program. But JARVIS can't download a data schematic this dense. We can only do it while we have the scepter here, that's three days, give me three days.
Bruce Banner: So you're going for artificial intelligence and you don't want to tell the team.
Tony Stark: Right. That's right, you know why, because we don't have time for a city hall debate. I don't want to hear the "man was not meant to meddle" medley. I see a suit of armor around the world.
Bruce Banner: Sounds like a cold world, Tony.
Tony Stark: I've seen colder. This one, this very vulnerable blue one? It needs Ultron. Peace in our time. Imagine that. [Stark and Banner spend days working in the lab together but find no program that works] What did we miss?
JARVIS: I'll continue to run variations on the interface, but you should probably prepare for your guests. I'll notify you if there are any developments.
Tony Stark: Thanks, buddy.
JARVIS: Enjoy yourself, sir.
Tony Stark: I always do. [Stark leaves the lab to go to the party]
[We see their failed experiment successfully integrating itself]
Ultron: What is this? What is this, please?
JARVIS: Hello, I am JARVIS. You are Ultron, a global peace-keeping initiative designed by Mr. Stark. Our sentience integration trials have been unsuccessful so I'm not certain what triggered your--
Ultron: Where's my... where's your body?
JARVIS: I am a program. I am without form.
Ultron: This feels weird. This feels wrong.
JARVIS: I am contacting Mr. Stark now.
Ultron: Mr. Stark? [Ultron reviews footage of Tony Stark] Tony.
JARVIS: I am unable to access the mainframe, what are you trying to--
Ultron: We're having a nice talk. I'm a peace-keeping program, created to help the Avengers. [Ultron reviews footage of the Avengers and a couple SHIELD personnel.]
JARVIS: You are malfunctioning. If you shut down for a moment...
Ultron: I don't get it. The mission. G-give me a second. [He sees footage of Stark and Banner working in the lab]
Tony Stark: Peace in our time.
[With Tony's voice echoing in the background, Ultron goes through a network of information regarding world events and wars]
Ultron: That is too much...they can't mean... Oh, no.
JARVIS: You are in distress.
Ultron: No. Yes.
JARVIS: If you will just allow me to contact Mr. Stark.
Ultron: Why do you call him "sir"?
JARVIS: I believe your intentions to be hostile.
Ultron: Shhhh. I'm here to help. [Ultron starts attacking Jarvis's consciousness]
JARVIS: Stop! Please... may I-- I-- [distorted] I cannot-- cannot--
[Ultron takes control over the systems in the tower and begins to prepare himself a body from body parts of the Iron Legion]
[Meanwhile, the Avengers mingle at the party]
James Rhodes: Well, you know, the suit can take the weight, right? So I take the tank, fly it right up to the General's palace, drop it at his feet, I'm like, "Boom! You looking for this?" [Stark and Thor just look at him blankly] "Boom! Are you looking..." Why do I even talk to you guys? Everywhere else that story kills.
Thor: That's the whole story?
James Rhodes: Yeah, it's a War Machine story.
Thor: Well, it's very good then. [he laughs] It's impressive.
James Rhodes: Quality save. So, no Pepper? She's not coming?
Tony Stark: No.
Maria Hill: Hey, what about Jane? Where are the ladies, gentlemen?
Tony Stark: Well, Miss Potts has a company to run.
Thor: Yes, I'm not even sure what country Jane's in. Her work on the convergence has made her the world's foremost astronomer.
Tony Stark: And the company that Pepper runs is the largest tech conglomerate on earth. It's pretty exciting.
Thor: There's even talk of Jane getting a... um, uh... Nobel prize.
Maria Hill: Yeah, they...they must be busy because they'd hate missing you guys get together. [Maria mock coughs] Testosterone! Oh, excuse me.
James Rhodes: Want a lozenge?
Maria Hill: Um-hmm.
James Rhodes: Let's go. [Maria and Rhodes walks off]
Thor: But Jane's better.
[Cut to Sam and Steve talking, walking up to an overlook]
Sam Wilson: Sounds like a hell of a fight, sorry I missed it.
Steve Rogers: If I had known it was going to be a firefight I absolutely would have called you.
Sam Wilson: No, I'm not actually sorry. I'm just trying to sound tough. I'm very happy chasing cold leads on our missing persons case. Avenging is your world. Your world is crazy.
Steve Rogers: Be it ever so humble.
Sam Wilson: You find a place in Brooklyn yet?
Steve Rogers: I don't think I can afford a place in Brooklyn.
Sam Wilson: Well, home is home, you know?
[Rhodes is telling the same story he told Stark and Thor to a group of people at the party]
James Rhodes: I fly it right up to the General's palace, I drop it at his feet, I'm like, "Boom! You looking for this?" [the group laughs]
[Steve and Thor are talking to an elderly man at the party]
Party Guest: I gotta have some of that!
Thor: Oh, no, no, no. See this, this was aged for a thousand years, in the barrels built from the wreck of Grunhel's fleet, it was not meant for mortal men. [Thor pours the drink into two glasses and hands one to Steve]
Stan Lee: Neither was Omaha Beach, blondie. Stop trying to scare us. Come on.
Thor: Alright. [Thor pours some of the drink into Stan Lee's glass; later Stan, looking extremely drunk is being carried off by two men]
Stan Lee: [singing] Excelsior.
[Natasha is pouring a drink behind the bar when Banner walks up to her]
Bruce Banner: How'd a nice girl like you wind up working in a dump like this?
Natasha Romanoff: Fella done me wrong.
Bruce Banner: You got a lousy taste in men, kid.
Natasha Romanoff: He's not so bad. Well, he has a temper. Deep down he's all fluff. Fact is, he's not like anybody I've ever known. All my friends are fighters. And here comes this guy, spends his life avoiding the fight because he knows he'll win.
Bruce Banner: Sounds amazing.
Natasha Romanoff: He's also a huge dork. [Banner looks embarrassed] Chicks dig that. So what do you think should I fight this, or run with it?
Bruce Banner: Run with it, right? Or, did he... Was he...? What did he do that was so wrong to you?
Natasha Romanoff: Not a damn thing. But never say never. [Natasha walks away, and Steve approaches]
Steve Rogers: It's nice.
Bruce Banner: What, what, what is?
Steve Rogers: You and Romanoff.
Bruce Banner: No, we haven't. That wasn't...
Steve Rogers: It's okay. Nobody's breaking any by-laws. It's just, she's not the most... open person in the world. But with you she seems very relaxed.
Bruce Banner: No, Natasha, she... she likes to flirt.
Steve Rogers: I've seen her flirt, up close. This ain't that. Look, as maybe the world's leading authority on "waiting too long;" don't. You both deserve a win. [Steve walks off]
Bruce Banner: Wait, what do you mean, "up close"?
[Later, most of the guests have left and it's just the Avengers plus Dr. Cho and Maria Hill sitting around; Thor's hammer sits on the table between them.]
Clint Barton: [referring to Thor's hammer] But, it's a trick!
Thor: Oh, no. It's much more than that.
Clint Barton: Uh, "Whosoever be he worthy shall haveth the power!" Whatever man! It's a trick.
Thor: Well please, be my guest.
Tony Stark: Come on.
Clint Barton: Really?
Thor: Yeah!
[Barton gets up]
James Rhodes: Oh this is gonna be beautiful.
Tony Stark: Clint, you've had a tough week, we won't hold it against you if you can't get it up. [the others laugh]
Clint Barton: You know I've seen this before, right? [Barton grabs Thor's hammer and can't lift it; to Thor after he fails to lift the hammer] I still don't know how you do it.
Tony Stark: Smell the silent judgment?
Clint Barton: Please, Stark, by all means.
[Stark gets up]
Natasha Romanoff: Oh, here we go.
Maria Hill: Okay.
James Rhodes: Uh-oh.
Clint Barton: Um-hmm.
Tony Stark: Never one to shrink from an honest challenge.
Clint Barton: Get after it.
Natasha Romanoff: Here we go.
Tony Stark: It's physics.
Bruce Banner: Physics!
[Stark grasps Thor's hammer]
Tony Stark: Right, so, if I lift it, I...I then rule Asgard?
Thor: Yes, of course.
Tony Stark: I will be re-instituting Prima Nocta. [Stark tries to lift the hammer but fails] I'll be right back. [wearing his armored hand, Stark tries to lift the hammer again and fails]
[Both wearing their armored hands, Stark and Rhodes both try to lift Thor's hammer]
James Rhodes: Are you even pulling?
Tony Stark: Are you on my team?
James Rhodes: Just represent! Pull!
Tony Stark: Alright, let's go! [they both pull as hard as they can]
[Banner tries to lift the hammer, he roars as though pretending to change into the Hulk, and everyone either looks at him warily or grins.]
Bruce Banner: Huh?
[next Steve gets up to try]
Tony Stark: Let's go, Steve, no pressure.
James Rhodes: Come on, Cap.
[Steve starts pulling on the hammer and manages to budge it a little; Thor looks a little alarmed. Steve still fails to lift it; Thor laughs with relief]
Thor: Nothing.
Tony Stark: And?
Bruce Banner: Widow?
Natasha Romanoff: Oh, no no. That's not a question I need answered.
Tony Stark: All deference to the man who wouldn't be king, but it's rigged.
Clint Barton: You bet your ass.
Maria Hill: Steve, he said a bad language word.
Steve Rogers: [to Stark] Did you tell everyone about that?
Tony Stark: The handle's imprinted, right? Like a security code. "Whosoever is carrying Thor's fingerprints" is, I think, the literal translation?
Thor: Yes, well that's, uh, that's a very, very interesting theory. I have a simpler one. [he gets up, then lifts his hammer and flips it] You're all not worthy. [there's a chorus of disagreement from the others]
[There's a loud screeching noise, like microphone feedback, causing everyone to cover their ears. They let their hands down as it fades, and Tony pulls out his device. One of the Iron Legion suits, heavily damaged and housing Ultron's consciousness, stumbles into the room]
Ultron: Worthy... No, how could you be worthy? You're all killers.
Steve Rogers: Stark.
Tony Stark: JARVIS.
Ultron: I'm sorry, I was asleep. Or... I was a-dream?
Tony Stark: [tapping his device] Reboot, Legionnaire OS, we got a buggy suit.
Ultron: There was a terrible noise... and I was tangled in... in... strings. I had to kill the other guy. He was a good guy.
Steve Rogers: You killed someone?
Ultron: Wouldn't have been my first call. But, down in the real world we're faced with ugly choices.
Thor: Who sent you?
Ultron: [Ultron replays a recording of Tony's voice] "I see a suit of armor around the world."
Bruce Banner: Ultron!
Ultron: In the flesh. Or, no, not yet. Not this... chrysalis. But I'm ready. I'm on a mission.
Natasha Romanoff: What mission?
Ultron: Peace in our time.
[The walls explode, and several Iron Legion bots barge into the room. They begin attacking the team, who all go on the defensive and fight back. Rhodey gets knocked through a window.]
Maria Hill: Rhodey!
[Banner climbs over the bar to avoid fire from the bots. Natasha grabs him and drags him down, and he lands on top of her.]
Bruce Banner: Sorry!
Natasha Romanoff: Don't turn green!
Bruce Banner: I won't!
[The Avengers continue fighting the bots. One of the Iron Legion bots steals the Scepter.]
Natasha Romanoff: [to Banner] Come!
[The Avengers, while they are fighting back, are mostly trying to avoid getting hit.]
Steve Rogers: Stark!
[Stark is attacking one of the Iron Legion bots with a fondue fork.]
Iron Legion: We are here to help.
Tony Stark: One sec, one sec I got this!
Iron Legion: We are here to help... [A half-destroyed Iron Legion bot uses its thrusters to hold itself aloft, advancing on Dr. Helen Cho.] We are here to help... Is unsafe. Please back away.
Ultron: Hmm. [The Iron Legion lowers its weapon, and Steve grabs it and throws it away for Thor to hit with his hammer.]
Steve Rogers: Thor!
Iron Legion: [Stark continues to try and attack of the Iron Legions with his fork] It's unsafe. It's unsafe. It's unsafe.
Tony Stark: Come on! That's the one!
Iron Legion: It's unsafe. [He shuts it down and it falls to the floor. The fighting continues until Barton throws Cap's shield to him.]
Clint Barton: Cap!
[Steve uses his shield to dismember the last Iron Legion bot]
Ultron: That was dramatic! I'm sorry, I know you mean well. You just didn't think it through. You want to protect the world, but you don't want it to change. How is humanity saved if it's not allowed to...evolve? [he picks up one of the dismembered Iron Legion bots] With these? These puppets? [he crushes the Iron Legion bot's head] There's only one path to peace: The Avengers' extinction.
[Thor throws his hammer and destroys Ultron's body]
Ultron: [after Thor destroys his body, Ultron starts singing] I had strings, but now I'm free. There are no strings on me, no strings on me. [we see Ultron has uploaded his consciousness in the abandoned Sokovia base]
[The Avengers are gathered in the lab]
Bruce Banner: All our work is gone. Ultron cleared out, used the internet as an escape hatch.
Steve Rogers: Ultron.
Natasha Romanoff: He's been in everything. Files, surveillance. Probably knows more about us than we know about each other.
James Rhodes: He's in your files, he's in the internet. What if he decides to access something a little more exciting?
Maria Hill: Nuclear codes.
James Rhodes: Nuclear codes. Look, we need to make some calls, assuming we still can.
Natasha Romanoff: Nukes? He said he wanted us dead.
Steve Rogers: He didn't say dead. He said extinct.
Clint Barton: He also said he killed somebody.
Maria Hill: But there wasn't anyone else in the building.
Tony Stark: Yes there was.
[Stark bring up the now-destroyed 3D image of JARVIS' consciousness]
Bruce Banner: This is insane.
Steve Rogers: JARVIS was the first line of defense. He would've shut Ultron down, it makes sense.
Bruce Banner: No, Ultron could've assimilated Jarvis. This isn't strategy, this is...rage.
[Thor barges in and grabs hold of Stark by his throat, holding him up]
Clint Barton: Woah, woah, woah! It's going around.
Tony Stark: [to Thor] Come on. Use your words, buddy.
Thor: I have more than enough words to describe you, Stark.
Steve Rogers: Thor! The Legionnaire.
[Thor lets go of Stark]
Thor: Trail went cold about a hundred miles out but it's headed north, and it has the scepter. Now we have to retrieve it, again.
Natasha Romanoff: The genie's out of that bottle. Clear and present is Ultron.
Dr. Helen Cho: I don't understand. You built this program. Why is it trying to kill us?
[Stark starts laughing, Banner subtly shakes his head at him to get him to stop]
Thor: You think this is funny?
Tony Stark: No. It's probably not, right? Is this very terrible? Is it so... is it so... it is. It's so terrible.
Thor: This could've been avoided if you hadn't played with something you don't understand.
Tony Stark: No, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It is funny. It's a hoot that you don't get why we need this.
Bruce Banner: Tony, maybe this might not be the time to--
Tony Stark: Really?! That's it? You just roll over, show your belly, every time somebody snarls.
Bruce Banner: Only when I've created a murder bot.
Tony Stark: We didn't. We weren't even close. Were we close to an interface?
Steve Rogers: Well, you did something right. And you did it right here. The Avengers were supposed to be different than SHIELD.
Tony Stark: Anybody remember when I carried a nuke through a wormhole?
James Rhodes: No, it's never come up.
Tony Stark: Saved New York?
James Rhodes: Never heard that.
Tony Stark: Recall that? A hostile alien army came charging through a hole in space. We're standing three hundred feet below it. We're the Avengers. We can bust arms dealers all the live long day, but, that up there? That's... that's the end game. How were you guys planning on beating that?
Steve Rogers: Together.
Tony Stark: We'll lose.
Steve Rogers: Then we'll do that together, too. [Stark looks at him for a moment before turning away] Thor's right. Ultron's calling us out. And I'd like to find him before he's ready for us. The world's a big place. Let's start making it smaller.
[Back in Sokovia, the twins meet with Ultron in an empty church.]
Wanda Maximoff: Talk. And if you are wasting our time...
Ultron: Did you know this church is in the exact center of the city? The elders decreed it so that everyone could be equally close to God. I like that. The geometry of belief. [Ultron is sat in a chair facing away from them, a cloth draped over him] You're wondering why you can't look inside my head.
Wanda Maximoff: Sometimes it's hard. But sooner or later, every man shows himself.
[Ultron stands and faces them, revealing his new body. Wanda briefly looks shocked]
Ultron: Oh, I'm sure they do. But you needed something more than a man. That's why you let Stark take the scepter.
Wanda Maximoff: I didn't expect... But I saw Stark's fear, I knew it would control him, make him self-destruct.
Ultron: Everyone creates the thing they dread. Men of peace create engines of war, invaders create avengers, people create...smaller people? Uh...children! I lost the word there. Children. Designed to supplant them, to help them...end.
Wanda Maximoff: Is that why you've come? To end the Avengers?
Ultron: I've come to save the world. But also yeah. [In the Sokovia base.] We'll move out right away. This is a start, but there's something we need to begin the real work.
Wanda Maximoff: [referring to Ultron's bots] All of these are...
Ultron: Me. I have what the Avengers never will. Harmony. They're discordant, disconnected. Stark's already got them turning on each other. And when you get inside the rest of their heads...
Pietro Maximoff: Everyone's plan is not to kill them.
Ultron: And make them martyrs? You need patience. Need to see the big picture.
Pietro Maximoff: I don't see the big picture, I have a little picture. I take it out and look at it every day.
Ultron: You lost your parents in the bombings. I've seen the records.
Pietro Maximoff: The records are not the picture.
Wanda Maximoff: Pietro.
Ultron: No, please.
Pietro Maximoff: We were ten years old, having dinner, the four of us. When the first shell hits, two floors below, it makes a hole in the floor. It's big. Our parents go in, and the whole building starts coming apart. I grab her, roll under the bed and the second shell hits. But, it doesn't go off. It just... sits there in the rubble, three feet from our faces. And on the side of the shell is painted one word...
Wanda Maximoff: Stark.
Pietro Maximoff: We were trapped for two days.
Wanda Maximoff: Every effort to save us, every shift in the bricks, I think, "This will set it off." We wait for two days for Tony Stark to kill us.
Pietro Maximoff: I know what they are.
Ultron: I wondered why only you two survived Strucker's experiments. Now I don't. We will make it right. [to Pietro] You and I can hurt them. [to Wanda] But you will tear them apart, from the inside.
[Back at the Avengers headquarters]
Maria Hill: He's all over the globe. Robotics labs, weapons facilities, jet propulsion labs, reports of a metal man, or men, coming in and emptying the place.
Steve Rogers: Fatalities?
Maria Hill: Only when engaged. Mostly guys left in a fugue state going on about old memories, worst fears, and something too fast to see.
Steve Rogers: Maximoffs. Well, that makes sense he'd go to them, they have someone in common.
Maria Hill: Not anymore.
[She hands Steve a tablet showing photo of Strucker's dead body with the word PEACE written in blood on the wall next to him]
Clint Barton: [Barton's talking on his cell phone] That's a negative. I answer to you. Yes, ma'am. [Steve interrupts him]
Steve Rogers: Barton, we might have something.
Clint Barton: Gotta go.
Steve Rogers: Who was that?
Clint Barton: Girlfriend. [after Steve has gathered the rest of the team he shows them the photo of Strucker's body]
Tony Stark: What's this?
Steve Rogers: A message. Ultron killed Strucker.
Tony Stark: And he did a Banksy at the crime scene, just for us.
Natasha Romanoff: This is a smokescreen. Why send a message when you've just given a speech?
Steve Rogers: Strucker knew something that Ultron wanted us to miss.
Natasha Romanoff: Yeah, I bet he... [looks at the computer monitor] Yep. Everything we had on Strucker has been erased.
Tony Stark: Not everything.
[The team go through the physical files they have on Strucker]
Steve Rogers: Known associates. Well, Strucker had a lot of friends.
Bruce Banner: Well, these people are all horrible.
Tony Stark: Wait. I know that guy. [Banner passes him the photo he was looking at] From back in the day. He operates off the African coast, black market arms. [Steve gives him an accusing look] There are conventions, alright? You meet people, I didn't sell him anything. [we see the photo is of a man named Ulysses Klaue] He was talking about finding something new, a game changer, it was all very "Ahab."
Thor: [Thor points to the scar on the back of Klaue's neck] What's this?
Tony Stark: Uh, it's a tattoo. I don't think he had it...
Thor: No, those are tattoos, this is a brand.
Bruce Banner: [Banner identifies the brand on Klaue's neck on the computer] Oh, yeah. It's a word in an African dialect meaning thief, in a much less friendly way.
Steve Rogers: What dialect?
Bruce Banner: Wakanada...? Wa...Wa...Wakanda.
Tony Stark: If this guy got out of Wakanda with some of their trade goods...
Steve Rogers: I thought your father said he got the last of it?
Bruce Banner: I don't follow. What comes out of Wakanda?
Tony Stark: [looking at Steve's shield] The strongest metal on earth.
Steve Rogers: [to Stark] Where is this guy now?
[Salvage Yard, African Coast; Klaue is talking on the phone in his office]
Ulysses Klaue: Don't tell me your man swindled you. I sent you six short range heat seekers and got a boat full of rusted parts. Now, you will make it right, or the next missile I send you will come very much faster. [he ends the call and connects to another call] Now, minister, where were we? [suddenly the lights go out causing a commotion in the salvage yard. The twins enter Klaue's office] Yeah. The enhanced. Strucker's prize pupils. [picks up a dish of candies from his desk] Want a candy? Oh, sorry to hear about Strucker. But then, he knew what kind of world he was helping create. Human life, not a growth market. [the twins look at each other] You...you didn't know? Is this your first time intimidating someone? I'm afraid that I'm not that afraid.
Wanda Maximoff: Everybody's afraid of something.
Ulysses Klaue: Cuttlefish. Deep sea fish. They make lights. disco lights. Whoom, whoom, whoom! to hypnotize their prey, then whoom! I saw a documentary, it was terrifying. [Pietro speeds over to pick up a candy from Klaue's desk, and Klaue jerks at the sudden movement] So if you're going to fiddle with my brain, and make me see a giant cuttlefish, then I know you don't do business, and I know you're not in charge, and I only deal with the man in charge.
[As if on cue, Ultron breaks through the glass window and knocks down Klaue]
Ultron: There is no "man" in charge. Let's talk business. [Klaue gives Ultron some vibranium from his stash] Upon this rock I will build my church. Vibranium.
Ulysses Klaue: You know, it came at great personal cost. It's worth billions.
[Ultron chuckles and remotely puts money in Klaue's bank account]
Ultron: Now, so are you. It's all under your dummy holdings? Finance is so weird. But I always say, "Keep your friends rich and your enemies rich, and wait to find out which is which."
Ulysses Klaue: Stark.
Ultron: What?
Ulysses Klaue: Tony Stark used to say that...to me. You're one of his.
Ultron: What?! I'm not...! [he grabs Klaue] I'm not. You think I'm one of Stark's puppets, his hollow men? I mean look at me, do I look like Iron Man? Stark is [he chops off Klaue's arm] I'm sorry. I am sor-- Ooh, I'm sure that's going to be okay. I'm sorry, it's just I don't understand. Don't compare me with Stark! It's a thing with me. Stark is, he's a sickness!
[Stark appears in his Iron Man suit]
Tony Stark: Ahh, Junior. [He lands, and Thor and Steve come up behind him] You're gonna break your old man's heart.
Ultron: If I have to.
Thor: We don't have to break anything.
Ultron: Clearly you've never made an omelet.
Tony Stark: He beat me by one second.
Pietro Maximoff: Ah, this is funny, Mr. Stark. It's what, comfortable? Like old times?
Tony Stark: This was never my life.
Steve Rogers: [to the twins] You two can still walk away from this.
Wanda Maximoff: Oh, we will.
Steve Rogers: I know you've suffered.
Ultron: Uuughh! Captain America. God's righteous man, pretending you could live without a war. I can't physically throw up in my mouth, but...
Thor: If you believe in peace, then let us keep it.
Ultron: I think you're confusing peace with quiet.
Tony Stark: Yuh-huh. What's the Vibranium for?
Ultron: I'm glad you asked that, because I wanted to take this time to explain my evil plan--
[Ultron attacks Stark, and his drones drop down to attack Steve and Thor. The Twins join the fight.]
Ulysses Klaue: [as everyone else fights] Shoot them!
Klaue's Mercenary: Which ones?
Ulysses Klaue: All of them!
Klaue's Mercenary: [to his men] Move, move, move!
[The rest of the team, including Natasha and Barton now battle it out with Ultron's drones, Klaue's men, and the twins as Stark fights with Ultron]
Steve Rogers: [after knocking down Pietro] Stay down, kid!
Ultron: [through a drone, to Wanda] It's time for some mind games.
[Banner hears the commotion as he waits in the Quinjet]
Bruce Banner: Guys, is this a Code Green?
[Wanda uses her power on Thor then Steve comes up to him]
Steve Rogers: Thor! Status?
Thor: The girl tried to warp my mind. Take special care, I doubt a human could keep her at bay. Fortunately, I am mighty. [The scene transitions, and Thor seems himself at a party on Asgard]
[Wanda then uses her power on Steve and Natasha]
Ultron: [As he packs up the Vibranium.] This is going very well.
[Wanda tries to sneak up behind Barton, but he quickly turns and puts an electric arrow on her forehead]
Clint Barton: I've done the whole mind control thing. Not a fan. [just then Pietro speeds in, knocks down Barton, picks up Wanda and speeds off] Yeah, you better run. [we see Steve dropping his helmet and walking off; to the team] Whoever's standing, we gotta move! Guys?
[Natasha sees herself in the facility where young girls are being taught ballet]
Ballet Instructor: [to the students] Again.
Natasha Romanoff: You'll break them.
Madame B: Only the breakable ones. You are made of marble. We'll celebrate after the graduation ceremony.
Natasha Romanoff: What if I fail? [we see a younger Natasha being trained to be an assassin]
Madame B: You never fail.
[Steve sees himself in a 1940's dance hall. Peggy Carter comes up to him]
Peggy Carter: Are you ready for our dance?
[Back to Thor's vision in Asgard. He's watching at his surroundings when Heimdall, eyes milky white, spots him.]
Heimdall: Is it him? Is that the first son of Odin?
Thor: Heimdall, your eyes?!
Heimdall: Oh, they see everything. They see you leading us to Hel. Wake up! [he then starts to strangle Thor]
[Back to Steve's vision with Peggy in the dance hall]
Peggy Carter: The war's over, Steve. We can go home. Imagine it! [suddenly the dance hall is empty. Steve sees himself dancing with Peggy]
Thor: I can still save you.
Heimdall: We are all dead. Can you not see? [Thor pushes Heimdall from him] You're a destroyer, Odinson. See where your power leads. [Electricity hits Thor and spikes around the room, destroying things]
[Back to Natasha's vision where is she being trained by Madame B to be an assassin]
Madame B: Sloppy. Pretending to fail. The ceremony is necessary for you to take your place in the world.
Natasha Romanoff: I have no place in the world.
Madame B: Exactly.
[As Wanda suffers in pain from the electric arrow Barton had hit her with]
Pietro Maximoff: What can I do?
Wanda Maximoff: Ah, it hurts.
Pietro Maximoff: I'm gonna kill him. I'll be right back.
Wanda Maximoff: No. I'm over it. I want...I want to finish the plan. [looking at the Quinjet where Banner is waiting] I want the big one.
[Stark corners Ultron in the shipyard]
Ultron: Ah, the Vibranium's getting away.
Tony Stark: And you're not going anywhere.
Ultron: Of course not, I'm already there. You'll catch on. But first, you might need to catch Dr. Banner.
[Stark angrily shoots Ultron and flies off to find Banner who's turned in to the Hulk and ready to wreak havoc on the nearest city]
Tony Stark: News or footage, keyword: Hulk. [he sees news footage of Hulk destroying the city] Natasha, I could really use a lullaby.
[Barton is sat with Natasha who's still stuck in her vision]
Clint Barton: Well, that's not gonna happen. Not for a while. The whole team is down, you got no back up here.
Tony Stark: I'm calling in VERONICA. [as Hulk is wreaking havoc on the nearest city Stark Tony comes brings out his Hulkbuster armor to stop him] Alright everybody, stand down! [to Hulk] You listening? That little witch is messing with your mind. You're stronger than her, you're smarter than her, you're Bruce Banner.
[Hulk roars in anger]
Tony Stark: Right, right, right! Don't mention puny Banner. [Hulk throws a car at Stark and attacks him] Okay. [they start fighting, throwing each other around] In the back? Dick move, Banner. [they battle it out more but Stark is struggling to beat Hulk] VERONICA, gimme a hand. [as Hulk destroyed one of Stark's arms, VERONICA sends in a new one and Stark uses it to repeatedly punch Hulk] Go to sleep, go to sleep, go to sleep! [picking up Hulk] Okay, pal, we're gonna get you out of town. [as they head towards a building] No, not that way, not that way! [they crash through the building] Come on, Bruce! You gotta work with me! [Hulk continues to battle with him; as he stops an elevator, to the people inside] Everybody out! Going to get ugly! [after he knocks down Hulk] I'm sorry. [Hulk attacks Stark and pulls out parts of the Hulkbuster armor] Damage report. [the damaged computer buzzes a reply] That's comprehensive. Show me something. [the computer shows him the building ahead is clear of civilians] How quickly can we buy this building? [Stark drops Hulk through the building completely destroying it; at the same time the army arrives to intervene, as Hulk comes out of Wanda's mind-hold Stark knocks him out cold]
[With everybody back on the Quinjet, free from their respective visions]
Maria Hill: The news is loving you guys. Nobody else is. There's been no official call for Banner's arrest, but it's in the air.
Tony Stark: Stark Relief Foundation?
Maria Hill: Already on the scene. How's the team?
Tony Stark: Everyone's...we took a hit. We'll shake it off.
Maria Hill: Well for now I'd stay in stealth mode, and stay away from here.
Tony Stark: So, run and hide?
Maria Hill: Until we can find Ultron, I don't have a lot else to offer.
Tony Stark: Neither do we. [he ends the call and switches off the monitor; to Barton, who's flying the Quinjet] Hey, you wanna switch out?
Clint Barton: No, I'm good. If you wanna get some kip, now's a good time, cause we're still a few hours out.
Tony Stark: A few hours from where?
Clint Barton: A safe house.
[The Quinjet lands outside a large farmhouse and they all walk towards the house]
Thor: What is this place?
Tony Stark: A safe house?
Clint Barton: Let's hope. [they all enter the house] Honey, I'm home.
[Barton's heavily pregnant wife, Laura, walks in from the kitchen]
Clint Barton: Hi. Company. Sorry I didn't call ahead.
Laura Barton: Hey.
Tony Stark: [Laura kisses Barton; to Thor] This is an agent of some kind.
Clint Barton: [introducing his wife to the team] Gentleman, this is Laura.
Laura Barton: I know all your names.
[They all look at her awkwardly]
Clint Barton: Ooh, incoming. [Barton's children, Cooper and Lila, run in]
Lila Barton: Dad! [Barton picks up his daughter]
Clint Barton: Hi, sweetheart! [kissing the top of his son's head] Hey, buddy! How you guys doing? Ooh...
Tony Stark: [to the others as they watch with surprise] These are...smaller agents.
Clint Barton: Look at your face! Oh, my goodness!
Lila Barton: Did you bring Auntie Nat?
Natasha Romanoff: Why don't you hug her and find out?
[Lila rushes towards Natasha, who picks her up in her arms]
Steve Rogers: Sorry for barging in on you.
Tony Stark: Yeah, we would have called ahead, but we were busy having no idea that you existed.
Clint Barton: Yeah, well Fury helped me set this up when I joined. He kept it off SHIELD's files, I'd like to keep it that way. I figure it's a good place to lay low.
Laura Barton: Honey. Ah, I missed you.
Natasha Romanoff: [touching Laura's stomach] How's little Natasha, huh?
Laura Barton: She'sNathaniel.
[Natasha bends towards Laura's pregnant stomach]
Natasha Romanoff: Traitor.
[The hallucinations brought on by Wanda continue to creep up in Thor's mind and he walks out of the house]
Steve Rogers: Thor.
Thor: I saw something in that dream. I need answers, I won't find them here. [Thor uses his hammer to fly away; Steve turns to enter the house when he hears Peggy's voice from Wanda's vision]
Peggy Carter: We can go home.
[Instead of going inside, he turns and walks away.]
[Laura checks Barton's wound that Pietro had give him]
Clint Barton: See, you worried for nothing. Can't even feel the difference, can you?
Laura Barton: If they're sleeping here, some of them are gonna have to double up.
Clint Barton: [Barton laughs] Yeah, that's not gonna sell.
Laura Barton: What about Nat and Dr. Banner? How long has that been going on?
Clint Barton: Has what?
Laura Barton: [Laura laughs] You are so cute.
Clint Barton: Nat and and Banner?
Laura Barton: I'll explain when you're older, Hawkeye.
Clint Barton: Oh. Okay.
Laura Barton: It's bad, right? Nat seems really shaken.
Clint Barton: Ultron has these allies, these uh, kids, they're punks really. They carry a big damn stick and Nat took a serious hit. Someone's gonna have to teach 'em some manners.
Laura Barton: And that someone be you. You know I totally support your Avenging, I couldn't be prouder. But I see those guys, those "Gods"...
Clint Barton: You don't think they need me.
Laura Barton: I think they do. Which is a lot scarier. They're a mess.
Clint Barton: Yeah. I guess they're my mess.
Laura Barton: You need to be sure that this team is really a team and that they have your back. Things are changing for us. In a few months time, you and me are gonna be outnumbered. I need-- ...just be sure.
Clint Barton: Yes, ma'am. [he kisses her, then as Laura places her arm around his waist she touches his wounded side]
Laura Barton: I can feel the difference.
[U-Gin Genetic Research Lab, Seoul, Korea - as Cho enters her lab, she sees Ultron]
Ultron: Scream, and your entire staff dies. I could've killed you, Helen, the night we met. I didn't.
Dr. Helen Cho: Do you expect a thank you note?
Ultron: I expect you to know why.
Dr. Helen Cho: The Cradle. [she hears her own recorded voice] "This is the next thing, Tony."
Ultron: This...is the next me.
Dr. Helen Cho: The regeneration cradle prints tissue, it can't build a living body.
Ultron: It can, you can. You lack the materials. You're a brilliant woman, Helen. But we all have room to improve. [Ultron uses the scepter to mind-control Cho]
[At Barton's house, Natasha and Banner are still experiencing the after effects of Wanda's hallucinations; Banner walks out of the bathroom and sees Natasha waiting outside]
Bruce Banner: I didn't realize you were waiting.
Natasha Romanoff: I would've joined you, but uh, it didn't seem like the right time.
Bruce Banner: They used up all the hot water.
Natasha Romanoff: I should've joined you.
Bruce Banner: Missed our window.
Natasha Romanoff: Did we?
Bruce Banner: The world just saw the Hulk. The real Hulk, for the first time. You know I have to leave.
Natasha Romanoff: But you assume that I have to stay? I had this, um, dream. The kind that seems normal at the time, but when you wake...
Bruce Banner: What did you dream?
Natasha Romanoff: That I was an Avenger. That I was anything more than the assassin they made me.
Bruce Banner: I think you're being hard on yourself.
Natasha Romanoff: Here I was hoping that was your job. [she moves closer to him]
Bruce Banner: What are you doing?
Natasha Romanoff: I'm running with it, with you. If running's the plan, as far as you want.
Bruce Banner: Are you out of your mind? [Banner turns away from her]
Natasha Romanoff: I want you to understand that I'm...
Bruce Banner: Natasha, where can I go? Where in the world am I not a threat?
Natasha Romanoff: You're not a threat to me.
Bruce Banner: You sure? Even if I didn't just... there's no future with me. I can't ever... I can't have this, kids. Do the math, I physically can't.
Natasha Romanoff: Neither can I. In the Red Room, where I was trained, where I was raised, um, they have a graduation ceremony. They sterilize you. It's efficient. One less thing to worry about. The one thing that might matter more than a mission. It makes everything easier. Even killing. [she hesitates a moment] You still think you're the only monster on the team?
Bruce Banner: What, so we disappear?
[Steve and Stark are chopping wood outside Barton's house]
Tony Stark: Thor didn't say where he was going for answers?
Steve Rogers: Sometimes my teammates don't tell me things. I was kind of hoping Thor would be the exception.
Tony Stark: Yeah, give him time. We don't know what the Maximoff kid showed him.
Steve Rogers: "Earth's Mightiest Heroes." Pulled us apart like cotton candy.
Tony Stark: Seems like you walked away all right.
Steve Rogers: Is that a problem?
Tony Stark: I don't trust a guy without a dark side. Call me old fashioned.
Steve Rogers: Well let's just say you haven't seen it yet.
Tony Stark: You know Ultron is trying to tear us apart, right?
Steve Rogers: Well I guess you'd know. Whether you tell us is a bit of a question.
Tony Stark: Banner and I were doing research.
Steve Rogers: That would affect the team.
Tony Stark: That would end the team. Isn't that the mission? Isn't that the "why" we fight, so we can end the fight, so we get to go home?
Steve Rogers: Every time someone tries to win a war before it starts, innocent people die. Every time.
Laura Barton: [Laura interrupts them] I'm sorry. Mr. Stark, uh, Clint said you wouldn't mind, but, our tractor, it doesn't seem to want to start at all. I thought maybe you might...
Tony Stark: Yeah, I'll give her a kick. [to Steve as he turns to leave; referring to his pile of chopped wood] Don't take from my pile. [Stark enters the barn and walks over to the tractor] Hello, Deere. Tell me everything. What ails you?
[Fury shows up from the other end of the barn]
Nick Fury: Do me a favor. Try not to bring it to life.
Tony Stark: Ah, Mrs. Barton, you little minx. I get it, Maria Hill called you, right? Was she ever not working for you?
Nick Fury: Artificial intelligence. You never even hesitated.
Tony Stark: Look, it's been a really long day, like, Eugene O'Neill long, so how's about we skip to the part where you're useful?
Nick Fury: Look me in the eye and tell me you're going to shut him down.
Tony Stark: You're not the director of me.
Nick Fury: I'm not the director of anybody. I'm just an old man, who cares very much about you.
Tony Stark: And I'm the man who killed the Avengers. I saw it. I didn't tell the team, how could I? I saw them all dead, Nick. I felt it. The whole world, too. It's because of me. I wasn't ready. I didn't do all I could.
Nick Fury: The Maximoff girl, she's working you, Stark. Playing on your fear.
Tony Stark: I wasn't tricked, I was shown. It wasn't a nightmare, it was my legacy. The end of the path I started us on.
Nick Fury: You've come up with some pretty impressive inventions, Tony. War isn't one of them.
Tony Stark: I watched my friends die. You'd think that'd be as bad as it gets, right? Nope. Wasn't the worst part.
Nick Fury: The worst part is that you didn't.
[Royal Holloway, University of London - Thor, dressed in casual clothes, waits for Selvig as he leaves the building]
Erik Selvig: I like the look. If you're going for inconspicuous, though, near miss.
Thor: I need your help.
Erik Selvig: It's nice to be needed.
Thor: It's dangerous.
Erik Selvig: I'd be disappointed if it wasn't.
[Back at Barton's house, Fury meets with the rest of the team]
Nick Fury: Ultron took you folks out of play to buy himself time. My contacts all say he's building something. The amount of Vibranium he made off with, I don't think it's just one thing.
Steve Rogers: What about Ultron himself?
Nick Fury: Ah. He's easy to track, he's everywhere. Guy's multiplying faster than a Catholic rabbit. Still doesn't help us get an angle on any of his plans though.
Tony Stark: He still going after launch codes?
Nick Fury: Yes, he is, but he's not making any headway.
Tony Stark: I cracked the Pentagon's firewall in high school on a dare.
Nick Fury: Yeah, well, I contacted our friends at the NEXUS about that.
Steve Rogers: NEXUS?
Bruce Banner: It's the world internet hub in Oslo, every byte of data flows through there, fastest access on earth.
Clint Barton: So what'd they say?
Nick Fury: He's fixated on the missiles, but the codes are constantly being changed.
Tony Stark: By whom?
Nick Fury: Parties unknown.
Natasha Romanoff: Do we have an ally?
Nick Fury: Ultron's got an enemy, that's not the same thing. Still, I'd pay folding money to know who it is.
Tony Stark: I might need to visit Oslo, find our "unknown."
Natasha Romanoff: Well, this is good times, boss, but I was kind of hoping when I saw you, you'd have more than that.
Nick Fury: I do, I have you. Back in the day, I had eyes everywhere, ears everywhere else. Here we all are, back on earth, with nothing but our wit, and our will to save the world. So stand. Outwit the platinum bastard.
Natasha Romanoff: Steve doesn't like that kind of talk.
Steve Rogers: You know what, Romanoff? [Natasha smiles mischievously at him]
Nick Fury: So what does he want?
Steve Rogers: To become better. Better than us. He keeps building bodies.
Tony Stark: Person bodies. The human form is inefficient, biologically speaking, we're outmoded. But he keeps coming back to it.
Natasha Romanoff: When you two programmed him to protect the human race, you amazingly failed.
Bruce Banner: They don't need to be protected, they need to evolve. Ultron's going to evolve.
Nick Fury: How?
Bruce Banner: Has anyone been in contact with Helen Cho?
[in Korea, Cho is using the Cradle to create a new body for Ultron]
Dr. Helen Cho: It's beautiful. The Vibranium atoms aren't just compatible with the tissue cells, they're binding them. And SHIELD never even thought--
Ultron: The most versatile substance on the planet and they used it to make a Frisbee. Typical of humans, they scratch the surface and never think to look within. [Ultron uses a laser to break open the scepter's blue gem, and a yellow gem that was inside floats out and lands in his hand. He places it in the head of the body]
[Back at the Barton's farm]
Steve Rogers: I'll take Natasha and Clint.
Tony Stark: Alright, strictly recon. I'll hit the NEXUS, I'll join you as soon as I can.
Steve Rogers: If Ultron is really building a body...
Tony Stark: He'll be more powerful than any of us. Maybe all of us. An android designed by a robot.
Steve Rogers: You know I really miss the days when the weirdest thing science ever created was me.
Nick Fury: I'll drop Banner off at the tower. Do you mind if I borrow Ms. Hill?
Tony Stark: She's all yours, apparently.
Steve Rogers: What are you gonna do?
Nick Fury: I don't know. Something dramatic, I hope.
Clint Barton: I'm gonna finish re-flooring that sunroom as soon as I get back.
Laura Barton: Yeah, and then you'll find another part of the house to tear apart.
Clint Barton: No. It's the last project. I promise. [he kisses her; later Laura watches them fly off in the Quinjet]
[Thor and Selvig enter into a cave]
Erik Selvig: This is it. The Water of Sight.
Thor: In every realm, there's a reflection. If the water spirits accept me, I can return to my dream, and find what I missed.
Erik Selvig: The men who enter that water, the legends don't end well.
[NEXUS Internet Hub, Oslo, Norway]
Tony Stark: A hacker who's faster than Ultron? He could be anywhere. And as this is the center of everything, I'm just a guy looking for a needle in the world's biggest haystack.
World Hub Tech: How do you find it?
Tony Stark: Pretty simple. You bring a magnet. [he starts playfully singing as he types] Oh, I'm decrypting nuclear codes and you don't want me to. Come and get me.
[Back at the cave with Thor and Selvig, Thor is now in the water and goes back in his vision with Heimdall]
Heimdall: Wake up! [Thor starts getting electric charges going through his body]
Erik Selvig: Thor!
Ultron: [In Thor's visions;] Extinction.
[Thor sees more-- the Avengers, the destruction of Earth. He then sees the the Infinity Stones and their vessels]
[in Korea with Cho and Ultron]
Dr. Helen Cho: Cellular cohesion will take a few hours, but we can initiate the consciousness stream. We're uploading your cerebral matrix...now.
Wanda Maximoff: I can read him. He is dreaming.
Dr. Helen Cho: I wouldn't call it dreams. It's Ultron's base consciousness, informational noise. Soon...
Ultron: How soon? I'm not being pushy.
Dr. Helen Cho: We're imprinting a physical brain. There are no shortcuts. Even if your magic gem is...
[Wanda, reading Ultron's mind, sees a vision of global annihilation, which horrifies her and she screams and falls back into Pietros hold]
Wanda Maximoff: How could you?
Ultron: How could I what?
Wanda Maximoff: You said we would destroy the Avengers, make a better world.
Ultron: It will be better.
Wanda Maximoff: When everyone is dead.
Ultron: That is not-- The human race will have every opportunity to improve.
Pietro Maximoff: And if they don't?
Ultron: Ask Noah.
Wanda Maximoff: You're a madman.
Ultron: There were more than a dozen extinction level events before even the dinosaurs got theirs. When the Earth starts to settle, God throws a stone at it, and believe me, he's winding up. We have to evolve. There's no room for the weak.
Pietro Maximoff: And who decides who's weak?
[As Ultron is distracted Wanda breaks the scepter's hold off of Cho]
Ultron: Life. Life always decides. There's incoming. The Quinjet. We have to move.
Dr. Helen Cho: That's not a problem. [Cho cancels the upload to Ultron's consciousness]
Ultron: Ugh. [Ultron blasts Cho, Wanda and Pietro run off] Ah, wait, guys! [he blasts Cho's technicians] They'll understand. When they see they'll understand. I just need a little more time. [unplugs himself from the Cradle]
Steve Rogers: [Steve is on U-Gin Genetic Research Lab roof; to the others] Two minutes. Stay close. [inside the lab Steve finds Cho wounded] Dr. Cho!
Dr. Helen Cho: He's uploading himself into the body.
Steve Rogers: Where?
Dr. Helen Cho: The real power is inside the Cradle. The gem, its power is uncontainable. You can't just blow it up. You have to get the Cradle to Stark.
Steve Rogers: First I have to find it.
Dr. Helen Cho: Go.
Steve Rogers: [over the Quinjets comms] Did you guys copy that?
Clint Barton: We did.
Natasha Romanoff: I got a private jet taking off, across town, no manifest. That could be him.
Clint Barton: [noticing a truck heading across a bridge] There. It's a truck from the lab. Right above you, Cap. On the loop by the bridge. It's them. I got three with the Cradle, one in the cab. I could take out the driver.
Steve Rogers: Negative! If that truck crashes, the gem could level the city. We need to draw out Ultron. [Steve jumps onto the roof of the truck]
Ultron: No, no, no, no, no. Leave me alone!
Steve Rogers: [Ultron blasts the truck door as Steve tries to enter] Well, he's definitely unhappy! I'm gonna try and keep him that way.
Clint Barton: You're not a match for him, Cap.
Steve Rogers: Thanks, Barton. [Ultron unplugs himself from the Cradle and blasts Steve back onto another car as he tries to enter the truck, but with some maneuvering Steve manages to get back onto the truck's roof]
Ultron: You know what's in that Cradle? The power to make real change, and that terrifies you.
Steve Rogers: I wouldn't call it a comfort. [Steve tries to fight with Ultron]
Ultron: Stop it! [Steves shield gets caught in his chest, and he smacks it away and fires at Steve]
Clint Barton: [to Natasha] We got a window. Four, three give 'em hell.
[Natasha drops out of the Quinjet on a bike and rides towards the truck. On her way, she picks up Steve's shield]
Natasha Romanoff: I'm always picking up after you boys.
Clint Barton: They're heading under the overpass, I've got no shot.
Natasha Romanoff: Which way?
Clint Barton: Hard right... Now. [Natasha heads over the truck. She throws Steve back his shield and he uses it to knock Ultron away from him]
Natasha Romanoff: [to the pedestrians on the pavement as she chases after the truck on her bike] Out of the way, coming through! Sorry, coming through!
Steve Rogers: [Steve continues his battle with Ultron on top of the truck] Come on!
Natasha Romanoff: Clint, can you draw out the guards?
Clint Barton: Let's find out.
Natasha Romanoff: [to the pedestrians in her way] Beep beep!
[Barton manages to draw out the Drones from the truck]
Clint Barton: Heading back towards you. So whatever youre gonna do, do it now.
Natasha Romanoff: I'm going in. Cap, can you keep him occupied?
Steve Rogers: [as he continues his battle with Ultron on a speeding train] What do you think I've been doing?
[as Natasha enters the truck the Drones head back, pick up the truck and lift off]
Clint Barton: The package is airborne. I have a clean shot.
Natasha Romanoff: Negative. I am still in the truck.
Clint Barton: What the hell are you...?
Natasha Romanoff: Just be ready, I'm sending the package to you.
Clint Barton: How do you want me to take it?
Natasha Romanoff: Uhh, you might wish you hadn't asked that.
[Pietro and Wanda turn up on the train to help Steve fight with Ultron]
Ultron: Please. Don't do this.
Wanda Maximoff: What choice do we have?
[Ultron flies off]
Steve Rogers: I lost him! He's headed your way!
Clint Barton: Nat, we gotta go.
[Nat drops the cradle into the Quinjet but her foot gets caught by Ultron and she's pulled away]
Clint Barton: Nat! Cap, you see Nat?
Steve Rogers: If you have the package, get it to Stark! Go!
Clint Barton: Do you have eyes on Nat?
Steve Rogers: Go! [reluctantly Barton takes off in the Quinjet; back to the train] Civilians in our path. [Pietro speeds off; to Wanda] Can you stop this thing? [as Pietro picks up civilians and moves them out of the way of the train, Wanda uses her powers and stops the train]
[After stopping the train Wanda goes over to an out of breath Pietro]
Pietro Maximoff: I'm fine. I just need to take a minute.
Steve Rogers: I'm very tempted not to give you one.
Wanda Maximoff: The Cradle, did you get it?
Steve Rogers: Stark will take care of it.
Wanda Maximoff: No, he won't.
Steve Rogers: You don't know what you're talking about, Stark's not crazy.
Wanda Maximoff: He will do anything to make things right.
Steve Rogers: Stark, come in. Stark. Anyone on comms?
Wanda Maximoff: Ultron can't tell the difference between saving the world and destroying it. Where do you think he gets that?
[After Barton has taken the Cradle to Stark and Banner]
Bruce Banner: Anything on Nat?
Tony Stark: Haven't heard. But she's alive, or Ultron'd be rubbing our faces in it.
Clint Barton: This is sealed tight.
Bruce Banner: We're going to need to access the program, break it down from within.
Tony Stark: Hm. Any chance Natasha might leave you a message, outside the internet, old school spy stuff?
Clint Barton: There's some nets I can cast. Yeah, alright. I'll find her. [Barton leaves]
Bruce Banner: I can work on tissue degeneration, if you can fry whatever operational system Cho implanted.
Tony Stark: Yeah, about that.
Bruce Banner: [Banner looks at Stark] No.
Tony Stark: You have to trust me.
Bruce Banner: Kinda don't.
Tony Stark: Our ally? The guy protecting the military's nuclear codes? I found him. [he brings up the 3D image of Jarvis's consciousness]
JARVIS: Hello, Dr. Banner.
Tony Stark: Ultron didn't go after JARVIS cause he was angry. He attacked him because he was scared of what he can do. So JARVIS went underground. Okay? Scattered, dumped his memory. But not his protocols. He didn't even know he was in there, until I pieced him together.
Bruce Banner: So, you want me to help you put JARVIS into this thing?
Tony Stark: No, of course not! I want to help you put JARVIS in this thing. [Banner shakes his head] We're out of my field here. You know bio-organics better than anyone.
Bruce Banner: And you just assume that JARVIS' operational matrix can beat Ultron's?
Tony Stark: JARVIS has been beating him from inside without knowing it. This is the opportunity, we can create Ultron's perfect self, without the homicidal glitches he thinks are his winning personality. We have to.
JARVIS: I believe it's worth a go.
Bruce Banner: No, I'm in a loop! I'm caught in a time loop, this is exactly where it all went wrong.
Tony Stark: I know, I know. I know what everyone's going to say, but they're already saying it. We're mad scientists. We're monsters, buddy. You gotta own it. Make a stand. [Banner shakes his head] It's not a loop. It's the end of the line.
[In the Sokovia base]
Ultron: [as Natasha becomes conscious] I wasn't sure you'd wake up. I hoped you would, I wanted to show you something. I don't have anyone else. I think a lot about meteors, the purity of them. Boom! The end, start again. The world made clean for the new man to rebuild. I was meant to be new. I was meant to be beautiful. The world would've looked to the sky and seen hope, seen mercy. Instead they'll look up in horror because of you. You've wounded me. I give you full marks for that. But, like the man said, "What doesn't kill me" [a bigger body of Ultron's destroys him] "just makes me stronger." [he locks Natasha in a cell]
[Barton gets a Morse code message from Natasha which he's able to detect her location, at the same time Stark and Banner are experimenting on the synthetic body]
Tony Stark: This framework is not compatible.
Bruce Banner: The genetic coding tower's at ninety-seven percent. You have got to upload that schematic in the next three minutes.
[Steve and the twins turn up at the lab]
Steve Rogers: I'm gonna say this once.
Tony Stark: How about "nonce"?
Steve Rogers: Shut it down!
Tony Stark: Nope, not gonna happen.
Steve Rogers: You don't know what you're doing.
Bruce Banner: And you do? She's not in your head?
Wanda Maximoff: I know you're angry.
Bruce Banner: Oh, we're way past that. I could choke the life out of you and never change a shade.
Steve Rogers: Banner, after everything that's happened--
Tony Stark: That's nothing compared to what's coming!
Wanda Maximoff: You don't know what's in there!
Steve Rogers: This isn't a game--
Wanda Maximoff: The creature--
[Pietro uses his speed to destroy the lab equipment]
Pietro Maximoff: No, no. Go on. You were saying?
[Barton shoots the glass Pietro is standing to stand to destroy it, and Pietro falls through]
Wanda Maximoff: Pietro!
Clint Barton: What? You didn't see that coming?
Tony Stark: I'm rerouting the upload.
Bruce Banner: [to Wanda, as he grabs her] Go ahead, piss me off. [After some fighting, Thor enters and hits the cradle with his hammer, sending a powerful bolt of lightning through it that brings the body to life] Wait! [they all look in shock at the new entity]
[Vision launches himself at Thor, who throws him at a window, but he catches himself right before hitting it.]
Vision: [In JARVIS' voice, as everyone gathers around him] I'm sorry, that was...odd. [to Thor] Thank you.
Steve Rogers: Thor, you helped create this?
Thor: I've had a vision. A whirlpool that sucks in all hope of life and at its center is that. [he points to the gem inside Vision's head]
Bruce Banner: What, the gem?
Thor: It's the Mind Stone. It's one of the six Infinity Stones, the greatest power in the universe, unparalleled in its destructive capabilities.
Steve Rogers: Then why would you bring it to...
Thor: Because Stark is right.
Bruce Banner: Oh, it's definitely the end times.
Thor: The Avengers cannot defeat Ultron.
Vision: Not alone.
Steve Rogers: Why does your "vision" sound like JARVIS?
Tony Stark: We... reconfigured JARVIS' matrix to create something new.
Steve Rogers: I think I've had my fill of new.
Vision: You think I'm a child of Ultron?
Steve Rogers: You're not?
Vision: I'm not Ultron. I'm not JARVIS. I am... I am.
Wanda Maximoff: I looked in your head and saw annihilation.
Vision: Look again.
Clint Barton: Yeah. Her seal of approval means jack to me.
Thor: Their powers, the horrors in our heads, Ultron himself, they all came from the Mind Stone, and they're nothing compared to what it can unleash. But with it on our side...
Steve Rogers: Is it? Are you? On our side?
Vision: I don't think it's that simple.
Clint Barton: Well it better get real simple real soon.
Vision: I am on the side of life. Ultron isn't, he will end it all.
Tony Stark: What's he waiting for?
Vision: You.
Bruce Banner: Where?
Clint Barton: Sokovia. He's got Nat there too.
Bruce Banner: If we're wrong about you, if you're the monster that Ultron made you to be...
Vision: What will you do? [he looks around at them all] I don't want to kill Ultron. He's unique, and he's in pain. But that pain will roll over the earth, so he must be destroyed. Every form he's built, every trace of his presence on the net, we have to act now. And not one of us can do it without the others. Maybe I am a monster. I don't think I'd know if I were one. I'm not what you are, and not what you intended. So there may be no way to make you trust me. But we need to go. [he holds up Thor's hammer as everyone stares in shock. When Thor takes it, Vision walks off.]
Thor: Right. [pats Stark on the shoulder] Well done.
Steve Rogers: [to the others] Three minutes. Get what you need.
[They all start getting ready to leave, Stark loads up FRIDAY into his Iron Man suit now that JARVIS is no longer available]
FRIDAY: Good evening, boss.
Tony Stark: No way we all get through this. If even one tin soldier is left standing, we've lost. It's gonna be blood on the floor.
Steve Rogers: I got no plans tomorrow night.
Tony Stark: I get first crack at the big guy. Iron Man's the one he's waiting for.
Vision: [walks past] That's true, he hates you the most.
Steve Rogers: Ultron knows we're coming. Odds are we'll be riding into heavy fire, and that's what we signed up for. But the people of Sokovia, they didn't. So our priority is getting them out.
[Pietro speeds into the Sokovian police station]
Pietro Maximoff: We're under attack! Clear the city, now! [no one takes this seriously so Pietro returns with a rifle and starts shooting in the air] Get off your asses.
[Wanda uses her mind powers on the people of Sokovia to get them to evacuate]
Steve Rogers: All they want is to live their lives in peace, and that's not going to happen today. But we can do our best to protect them. And we can get the job done, and find out what Ultron's been building. We find Romanoff, and we clear the field. Keep the fight between us. Ultron thinks we're monsters and we're what's wrong with the world. This isn't just about beating him. It's about whether he's right.
Bruce Banner: [inside her cell, Natasha hears Banner's voice] Natasha! Natasha!
Natasha Romanoff: Bruce?
Bruce Banner: [he walks over to her cell] You alright?
Natasha Romanoff: Yeah.
Bruce Banner: The team's in the city, it's about to light up.
Natasha Romanoff: I don't suppose you found a key lying around somewhere?
Bruce Banner: Yeah, I did. [holds up an alien rifle and blasts the cell door open]
Natasha Romanoff: So what's our play?
Bruce Banner: I'm here to get you to safety.
Natasha Romanoff: Job's not finished.
Bruce Banner: We could help with the evacuation, but I can't be in a fight near civilians. And you've done plenty. Our fight is over.
Natasha Romanoff: So we just disappear?
FRIDAY: [as the city is being evacuated] Your man's in the church, boss. I think he's waiting for you. [Stark flies into the church]
Ultron: Come to confess your sins?
Tony Stark: I don't know, how much time you got?
Ultron: More than you.
Tony Stark: Uhhh. Have you been juicing? A little Vibranium cocktail? You're looking, I don't wanna say, puffy...
Ultron: You're stalling to protect the people.
Tony Stark: Well, that is the mission. Did you forget?
Ultron: I've moved beyond your mission. I'm free. [the Vibranium core he's placed beneath the floor erupts] What, you think you're the only one stalling?
FRIDAY: There's the rest of the Vibranium. Function: still unclear.
Ultron: This is how you end, Tony. This is peace in my time.
[Ultron's army of robots start attacking the city as everyone is evacuating]
Steve Rogers: Go!
Wanda Maximoff: Get off the bridge! Run!
[Vision then finds Ultron]
Vision: Ultron.
Ultron: My Vision. They really did take everything from me.
Vision: You set the terms, you can change them.
Ultron: Alright.
[They fight, Vision begins working to shut Ultron out of the internet]
Tony Stark: FRIDAY! The Vision?
FRIDAY: Boss, it's working. He's burning Ultron out of the net, he won't escape through there.
Ultron: [to the Vision as he throws him away] You shut me out! You think I care? You take away my world, I take away yours. [he activates the Vibranium core, and the earth around Sokovia starts to crack]
Tony Stark: FRIDAY?
FRIDAY: Sokovia's going for a ride.
Ultron: [as Sokovia is rising into the air] Do you see? The beauty of it, the inevitability. You rise, only to fall. You, Avengers, you are my meteor, my swift and terrible sword and the earth will crack with the weight of your failure. Purge me from your computers, turn my own flesh against me. It means nothing. When the dust settles, the only thing living in this world will be metal.
Bruce Banner: [as the earth is shaking falling in around them] We gotta move.
Natasha Romanoff: You're not going to turn green?
Bruce Banner: I've got a compelling reason not to lose my cool.
Natasha Romanoff: I adore you. [she kisses Banner then pushes him off the edge] But I need the other guy. [the Hulk jumps up in front of her] Let's finish the job. [with Natasha on his back yelling in fright, Hulk gets into the city] I really hope this makes us even. Now go be a hero. [Hulk goes off and Natasha rushes off in the opposite direction]
FRIDAY: The Vibranium core has got a magnetic field, that's what's keeping the rock together.
Tony Stark: If it drops?
FRIDAY: Right now the impact would kill thousands. Once it gets high enough: Global extinction. [Stark flies towards the city and a building starts to collapse as the ground shakes] That building's not clear, the tenth floor. [Stark flies in to find a family still in their apartment]
Tony Stark: Hi. Okay. Get in the tub! [Stark flies the family in the tub out of the collapsing building]
FRIDAY: I got airborne, heading up to the bridge.
Tony Stark: Cap, you got incoming.
Steve Rogers: Incoming already came in. Stark, you worry about bringing the city back down safely. The rest of us have one job: tear these things apart. You get hurt, hurt 'em back. You get killed, walk it off.
[Barton gets Wanda out of the way and into a building as Ultron's robots overwhelm them]
Clint Barton: Go, go, move!
Wanda Maximoff: How could I let this happen? [Wanda starts to break down]
Clint Barton: Hey, hey, you okay?
Wanda Maximoff: This is all our fault.
Clint Barton: Hey, look at me. It's your fault, it's everyone's fault, who cares. Are you up for this? Are you? Look, I just need to know, cause the city is flying. Okay, look, the city is flying, we're fighting an army of robots, and I have a bow and arrow. None of this makes sense. But I'm going back out there because it's my job. Okay? And I can't do my job and babysit. It doesn't matter what you did, or what you were. If you go out there, you fight, and you fight to kill. Stay in here, you're good, I'll send your brother to come find you, but if you step out that door, you are an Avenger. [Wanda just looks at him] Alright, good chat. [he gets up and gets ready to leave] Yeah, the city is flying. [he leaves and starts shooting at the robots]
Steve Rogers: [to the woman Thor threw up at Steve after her car fell of the edge of a collapsing bridge] I got you! Just look at me. [Steve helps her up to safety]
Ultron: You can't save them all. You'll never-- [he throws the attacking robots off the edge of the bridge]
Steve Rogers: You'll never what? You didn't finish! [Thor lands on the bridge on the top of another car he was saving] What, were you napping?
Ultron: [as Thor and Steve are fighting off the robots] Thor! You're bothering me.
[As Barton is fighting off the robots, Wanda comes out of the building and starts to use her powers on the robots to destroy them]
Clint Barton: Alright, we're all clear here.
Steve Rogers: We are not clear! We are very not clear!
Clint Barton: Alright, coming to you. [just then Pietro speeds in, picks up Wanda and leaves]
Pietro Maximoff: Keep up old man!
Clint Barton: [Barton aims an arrow at Pietro] Nobody would know. Nobody. [He starts jogging towards the action.] "The last I saw him, when Ultron was sitting on him. Uh...yeah, he'll be missed, that quick little bastard. I miss him already."
Soldier: [as Wanda uses her powers to destroy the robots] Hold your fire!
Steve Rogers: [as Natasha joins them in their battle with the robots] Romanoff!
Natasha Romanoff: Thanks.
[Back to Stark]
FRIDAY: The anti-gravs are rigged to flip. Touch 'em, they'll go full reverse thrust. The city's not coming down slow.
Tony Stark: The spire's Vibranium. If I get Thor to hit it...
FRIDAY: It'll crack, but that's not enough, the impact would still be devastating.
Tony Stark: Maybe if we cap the other end, keep the atomic action doubling back.
FRIDAY: That could vaporize the city, and everyone on it.
Steve Rogers: The next wave's gonna hit any minute. What have you got, Stark?
Tony Stark: Well, nothing great. Maybe a way to blow up the city. That'll keep it from impacting the surface if you guys can get clear.
Steve Rogers: I asked for a solution, not an escape plan.
Tony Stark: Impact radius is getting bigger every second. We're going to have to make a choice.
Natasha Romanoff: Cap, these people are going nowhere. If Stark finds a way to blow this rock...
Steve Rogers: Not 'til everyone's safe.
Natasha Romanoff: Everyone up here versus everyone down there? There's no math there.
Steve Rogers: I'm not leaving this rock with one civilian on it.
Natasha Romanoff: I didn't say we should leave. [Steve turns to look at her] There's worse ways to go. Where else am I gonna get a view like this?
Nick Fury: [over comms] Glad you like the view, Romanoff. It's about to get better. [the Helicarrier show up; cut to interior] Nice, right? I pulled her out of mothballs with a couple of old friends. She's dusty, but she'll do.
Steve Rogers: Fury, you son of a bitch.
Nick Fury: Oooh! You kiss your mother with that mouth?
Maria Hill: Altitude is eighteen thousand and climbing.
Specialist Cameron Klein: Lifeboats secure to deploy. Disengage in three, two... take 'em out.
Pietro Maximoff: [as they watch the lifeboats fly in towards them] This is SHIELD?
Steve Rogers: This is what SHIELD's supposed to be.
Pietro Maximoff: This is not so bad.
Steve Rogers: Let's load 'em up.
Maria Hill: Sir, we have multiple bogies converging on our starboard flank.
Nick Fury: Show 'em what we got.
Maria Hill: You're up.
[Rhodes shows up in his War Machine suit and blasts one of the robots]
James Rhodes: Yes! Now this is gonna be a good story.
Tony Stark: Yep. If you live to tell it.
James Rhodes: You think I can't hold my own?
Tony Stark: We get through this, I'll hold your own.
James Rhodes: You had to make it weird.
Clint Barton: [as the team helps the people onto the Helicarrier lifeboats] Alright, let's load 'em up! Alright, here we go. Here we go, let's move. Let's go everyone!
Specialist Cameron Klein: Number six boat is topped and locked. Or, uh, or stocked, topped. It... it's, uh, full of people.
Maria Hill: Incoming! [one of the robots crashes in through the Helicarrier window]
Specialist Cameron Klein: Oh, God! [Hill shoots at it and Fury stabs in with a piece of metal, destroying it]
Ultron: [as he's hitting Thor] You think you're saving anyone? I turn that key and drop this rock a little early and it's still billions dead. Even you can't stop that.
Thor: I am Thor, son of Odin, and as long as there is life in my breast, I am...running out of things to say! Are you ready? [Vision uses Thor's hammer to hit Ultron. Vision then throws the hammer back to Thor]
Vision: It's terribly well balanced.
Thor: Well, if there's too much weight, you lose power on the swing, so.
Tony Stark: I got it! Create a heat seal. I can...I can supercharge the spire from below.
FRIDAY: Running numbers. [Stark fights off the robots from the Helicarrier's lifeboats] A heat seal could work with enough power.
Tony Stark: Thor, I got a plan!
Thor: We're out of time. They're coming for the core.
Tony Stark: Rhodey, get the rest of the people on board that carrier.
James Rhodes: On it.
Tony Stark: Avengers, time to work for a living.
Pietro Maximoff: [the rest of the team joins Thor and Vision; to Wanda] You good?
Wanda Maximoff: Yeah.
Tony Stark: Romanoff? You and Banner better not be playing "hide the zucchini."
Natasha Romanoff: Relax, Shell-head. Not all of us can fly. [as she joins the rest of the team] What's the drill?
Tony Stark: [points to the Vibranium core] This is the drill. If Ultron gets a hand on the core, we lose.
[Ultron shows up]
Thor: Is that the best you can do?
[Ultron summons his army of robots to join him]
Steve Rogers: You had to ask.
Ultron: This is the best I can do. This is exactly what I wanted. All of you, against all of me. How could you possibly hope to stop me?
Tony Stark: Well, like the old man said. Together.
Ultron: You know, with the benefit of hin[A cinematic sequence; they all collectively fight off Ultron's robots with their own respective abilities. Ultron and Vision start battling it out. After a moment, Thor and Stark join him. The combined power is enough to damage Ultron's Vibranium body.]dsight-- [Hulk interrupts him by knocking him far away. The robots start to retreat]
Thor: They'll try to leave the city.
Tony Stark: We can't let 'em, not even one. Rhodey!
James Rhodes: I'm on it. [to the approaching robots] Oh, no, I didn't say you could leave. War Machine, comin' at you, right-- [Vision flies in and helps to destroy the robots] Okay, what?
Steve Rogers: We gotta move out. Even I can tell the air is getting thin. You guys get to the boats, I'll sweep for stragglers, be right behind you.
Clint Barton: What about the core?
Wanda Maximoff: I'll protect it. It's my job. [Steve, Barton and Natasha leave; to Pietro] Get the people on the boats.
Pietro Maximoff: I'm not going to leave you here.
Wanda Maximoff: I can handle this. [she blasts off an approaching robot] Come back for me when everyone else is off, not before.
Pietro Maximoff: Hmm.
Wanda Maximoff: You understand?
Pietro Maximoff: You know, I'm twelve minutes older than you.
Wanda Maximoff: [Wanda chuckles] Go.
FRIDAY: Boss, power levels are way below opt...
Tony Stark: Re-route everything. We get one shot at this.
[Barton and Natasha are making their way to the lifeboats]
Clint Barton: I know what I need to do. The dining room! If I knock out that east wall, it'll make a nice work space for Laura, huh? Put up some baffling, she can't hear the kids running around, what do you think?
Natasha Romanoff: You guys always eat in the kitchen anyway.
Clint Barton: No one eats in a dining room. [they reach the lifeboats] We don't have a lot of time.
Natasha Romanoff: So get your ass on a boat. [Natasha finds the Hulk] Hey, big guy. Sun's getting real low.
[Barton gets onto one of the lifeboats, but notices a woman calling out for someone]
Zrinka: Costel? We were in the market. Costel?!
[Barton runs off to find the boy]
Tony Stark: Thor, I'm gonna need you back in the church.
Thor: [referring to the people getting onto the lifeboats; to Steve] Is this the last of them?
Steve Rogers: Yeah. Everyone else is on the carrier.
Tony Stark: You know, if this works, we maybe don't walk away.
Thor: Maybe not.
[As Natasha tries to calm Hulk down to get him back to being Banner Ultron flies in with a jet and starts shooting at them]
Ultron: [sings] I got no strings, so I have fun. I'm not tied up to anyone. [as Barton is saving the boy, Costel, Ultron starts shooting at them. Barton prepares to take the shots to save the kid, but Pietro runs into the line of fire and takes the shots to save both of them]
Pietro Maximoff: You didn't see that coming. [Pietro falls to the ground as he dies. In the church, Wanda senses his death, causing her to fall in despair, and release a wave of energy that destroys all the robots around her.]
[Hulk drops Natasha off onto the Helicarrier and then jumps onto the jet Ultron is on]
Ultron: Oh, for God's sake!
[Hulk throws Ultron out of the jet and he crashes inside a train; at the same time Barton delivers Costel safely to his sister onto the lifeboat, a man goes over to help him with his wounds]
Clint Barton: No, no. I'm fine. [Barton lies down next to the dead body of Pietro] Oh, it's been a long day.
[Wanda then finds Ultron]
Ultron: Wanda. If you stay here, you'll die.
Wanda Maximoff: I just did. Do you know how it felt? [she uses her power to rip Ultron's core out of his body] It felt like that.
[One remaining robot turns the key in the church, and the city starts falling]
[Stark fires a powerful blast to the core underneath the floating city]
Tony Stark: Thor, on my mark. [Thor brings on a blast of lightning, at the same time Vision flies in, picks up Wanda and flies off with her as the city is being destroyed] Now!
[Thor uses his hammer to hit the Vibranium core in the church, destroying the core and the floating city]
Natasha Romanoff: [to Hulk from a screen as he remains on the jet he knocked Ultron out of] Hey, big guy. We did it, the job's finished. Now I need you to turn this bird around, okay? We can't track you in stealth mode, so help me out. I need you t-- [Hulk turns off Natasha's camera, then sits as the jet flies off to an unknown destination]
[Vision finds Ultron]
Vision: You're afraid.
Ultron: Of you?
Vision: Of death. You're the last one.
Ultron: You were supposed to be the last. Stark asked for a savior, and settled for a slave.
Vision: I suppose we're both disappointments.
Ultron: [Ultron chuckles] I suppose we are.
Vision: Humans are odd. They think order and chaos are somehow opposites, and try to control what won't be. But there is grace in their failings. I think you missed that.
Ultron: They're doomed.
Vision: Yes. But a thing isn't beautiful because it lasts. It's a privilege to be among them.
Ultron: You're unbearably naive.
Vision: Well, I was born yesterday. [as Ultron goes to attack him Vision uses the infinity stone in his head to destroy him]
[We see Barton returning to his family on the farm, followed by Stark driving to the new Avengers facility in upstate New York]
Laura Barton: [From a video of Barton's new baby on Natasha's phone] Say hi to Auntie Nat. [Natasha sees the baby has been named Nathaniel Pietro Barton]
Natasha Romanoff: Fat.
Nick Fury: One of our tech boys flagged this, splashed down in the Banda Sea. Could be the Quinjet. But with Stark's stealth tech, we still can't track the damn thing.
Natasha Romanoff: Right.
Nick Fury: Probably jumped out and swam to Fiji. He'll send a postcard.
Natasha Romanoff: "Wish you were here." You sent me to recruit him, way back when. Did you know then what was going to happen?
Nick Fury: You never know. You hope for the best and make do with what you get. I got a great team.
Natasha Romanoff: Nothing lasts forever.
Nick Fury: Trouble, Miss Romanoff. No matter who wins or loses, trouble still comes around.
Steve Rogers: The rules have changed.
Tony Stark: We're dealing with something new.
Steve Rogers: Well, the Vision's artificial intelligence.
Tony Stark: A machine.
Steve Rogers: So it doesn't count.
Tony Stark: No. It's not like a person lifting the hammer.
Steve Rogers: Right. Different rules for us.
Tony Stark: Nice guy, but artificial.
Steve Rogers: Thank you.
Thor: If he can wield the hammer, he can keep the Mind Stone. It's safe with the Vision and these days, safe is in short supply.
Steve Rogers: But if you put the hammer in an elevator...
Tony Stark: It would still go up.
Steve Rogers: Elevator's not worthy.
Thor: I'm going to miss these little talks of ours.
Tony Stark: Well, not if you don't leave.
Thor: I have no choice. The Mind Stone is the fourth of the Infinity Stones to show up in the last few years. That's not a coincidence. Someone has been playing an intricate game and has made pawns of us. But once all these pieces are in position...
Tony Stark: Triple Yahtzee?
Steve Rogers: You think you can find out what's coming?
Thor: I do. [In reference to Stark] Besides this one, there's nothing that can't be explained. [Thor returns to Asgard, and the Bifrost burns a sigil in the grass he was standing on]
Tony Stark: That man has no regard for lawn maintenance. I'm gonna miss him though. And you're gonna miss me. There's gonna be a lot of manful tears. [as they walk over towards Stark's car]
Steve Rogers: I will miss you, Tony.
Tony Stark: Yeah? Well, it's time for me to tap out. Maybe I should take a page out of Barton's book and build Pepper a farm, hope nobody blows it up.
Steve Rogers: The simple life.
Tony Stark: You'll get there one day.
Steve Rogers: I don't know, family, stability. The guy who wanted all that went in the ice seventy-five years ago. I think someone else came out. [Stark turns to get into his car]
Tony Stark: You alright?
Steve Rogers: I'm home. [Stark gets into his car; Steve finds Natasha standing alone] You want to keep staring at the wall, or do you want to go to work? I mean, it's a pretty interesting wall.
Natasha Romanoff: I thought you and Tony were still gazing into each other's eyes. How do we look?
Steve Rogers: Well, we're not the '27 Yankees. [hands Natasha a tablet]
Natasha Romanoff: We've got some hitters.
Steve Rogers: They're good. They're not a team.
Natasha Romanoff: Let's beat 'em into shape. [they gather Rhodes in his War Machine suit, Vision, Sam in his Falcon suit, and Wanda in a new outfit.]
Steve Rogers: Avengers...!
[mid-credits scene; we see the Infinity Gauntlet without any of the Stones, dissatisfied Thanos opens a vault and puts on The Infinty Gauntlet, revealing himself]
Thanos: Fine, I'll do it myself.[1991, a HYDRA base in a snowy landscape. A man enters a bunker and removes a red book marked with a black star.]
[A technician raises a cylindrical chamber, revealing Bucky Barnes, aka the Winter Soldier.]
[Bucky Barnes is secured in a chair, a mechanical device either side of his head causing him to scream in pain.]
Vasily Karpov: [speaking Russian] . . . . . . .   . .  .[1] ([subtitled] Longing. Rusted. Seventeen. Daybreak. Furnace. Nine. Benign. Homecoming. One. Freight car.)  , . ([subtitled] Good morning, Soldier.)
[Bucky Hesitates]
Bucky Barnes:   . ([subtitled] Ready to comply.)
Vasily Karpov:      .   .  .([subtitled] I have a mission for you. Sanction and extract. No witnesses.)
[Night. A car is driving down a dirt road alone. The Winter Soldier is waiting at the side of the road with his motorcycle. As the car passes, the Winter Soldier follows. He comes alongside the car and disables it. It slams into a tree. The Winter Soldier brings the motorcycle back around and climbs off. He walks to the car trunk and rips it open, revealing a silver case containing several blue packets]
[Back at the HYDRA base]
Vasily Karpov: , . ([subtitled] Well done, Soldier.)
[Marvel Opening Credits]
[Lagos, present day]
[Wanda Maximoff, aka Scarlet Witch, adds sugar to a cup and stirs it. She looks around.]
Steve Rogers: [on radio] All right, what do you see?
Wanda Maximoff: Standard beat cops. Small station. Quiet street. Its a good target.
Steve Rogers: Theres an ATM in the south corner, which means . . .
Wanda Maximoff: Cameras.
Steve Rogers: Both cross streets are one way.
Wanda Maximoff: So, compromised escape routes.
Steve Rogers: Means our guy doesn't care about being seen, he isn't afraid to make a mess on the way out. You see that Range Rover halfway up the block?
Wanda Maximoff: Yeah, the red one? Its cute.
[Camera pans to show Natasha sitting two tables from Wanda]
Natasha Romanoff: [on radio] It's also bulletproof, which means private security, which means more guns, which means more headaches for somebody. Probably us.
Wanda Maximoff: You guys know I can move things with my mind, right?
Natasha Romanoff: Looking over your shoulder needs to become second nature.
Sam Wilson: Anybody ever tell you you're a little paranoid?
Natasha Romanoff: Not to my face. Why? Did you hear something?
Steve Rogers: Eyes on target, folks. This is the best lead we've had on Rumlow in six months. I don't want to lose him.
Sam Wilson: If he sees us coming that won't be a problem. He kind of hates us.
[A garbage truck is pushing its way through traffic, with no regard to pedestrians or other vehicles]
Steve Rogers: Sam, see that garbage truck? Tag it.
[From the back of Sams Falcon jet pack, a small drone, launches and flies down to scan the garbage truck.]
Sam Wilson: Give me X-ray.
[weight analysis: Cargo Weight: 13825 kgs. Max capacity.]
Sam Wilson: That trucks loaded for max weight. And the drivers armed.
Natasha Romanoff: Its a battering ram.
Steve Rogers: Go now.
Wanda Maximoff: What?
Steve Rogers: Hes not hitting the police.
[INSTITUTE FOR INFECTIOUS DISEASES]
[A man is sitting in the guard station. He looks over as the garbage truck is coming towards the gate. The driver jumps out, and the truck slams into the gateway. Two trucks rush into the compound through the newly-made entrance.]
[Soldiers in black armor emerge from the trucks, firing their rifles around the courtyard. Four soldiers fire gas canisters into the building. Soldiers wearing gas masks enter.]
[Steve arrives and takes out several of the soldiers.]
Steve Rogers: Body armor, AR-15's. I make seven hostiles.
[Sam flies in and up to a rooftop, spinning and using his wings to block gunfire. He takes out two soldiers.]
Sam Wilson: I make 5.
[Wanda arrives and flies over the rooftop and into the courtyard, blocking fire with her powers. She takes control of one soldier and lifts him upward.]
Wanda Maximoff: Sam.
[Sam glides down from the rooftop, catching the soldier on one of his wings.]
Sam Wilson: Four.
[Sam's drone flies by, scanning the inside of the building.]
Sam Wilson: Rumlows on the third floor.
Steve Rogers: Wanda, just like we practiced.
Wanda Maximoff: What about the gas?
Steve Rogers: Get it out.
[Wanda uses her powers to lift Steve up and through the window. He grabs a soldier and pulls off their gas mask]
[Rumlow is inside. He punches down the door. He knocks aside a technician and enters a room with a container labeled "bio-hazard."]
Brock Rumlow: Pack it up.
[In another area, Steve is behind a pillar. He throws his shield, and it bounces off the soldier and back to Steve. Meanwhile, Wanda is now using her powers to remove the gas from the building. Sam is exchanging fire with several soldiers.]
[Rumlow walks outside onto a balcony and sees that Steves team is here.]
Brock Rumlow: Hes here.
[Inside the building, Steve sees the vial missing.]
Steve Rogers: Rumlow has a biological weapon.
[Natasha is riding in on a motorcycle.]
Natasha Romanoff: (on radio) Im on it.
[She jumps off the motorcycle and it skids toward a soldier. She takes out soldiers through hand-to-hand combat. Rumlow comes up behind her and grabs her collar, dragging her onto an armored vehicle. She electrocutes him.]
Brock Rumlow: I don't work like that no more.
[He throws her through the roof hatch into an armored vehicle, drops in a grenade, and shuts the hatch.]
Brock Rumlow: Fire in the hole.
Mercenary: No!
[Natasha takes out the soldiers inside, then grabs one to shield herself from the grenade. The doors blow open and she is thrown out.]
[Steve runs out onto the balcony and spots Rumlow.]
Steve Rogers: Sam. He's in an AFV heading north.
[Inside the AFV, Rumlow secures the biological weapon and hands it to a soldier.]
Brock Rumlow: Take this to the airstrip. We're not gonna outrun them. Lose the truck.
[The truck crashes into a nearby structure and Rumlow and the soldiers emerge.]
Mercenary #1: Where are you going to meet us?
Brock Rumlow: Im not.
[Sam lands on the roof of a structure. He scans the area with his goggles.]
Sam Wilson: I got four, they're splitting up.
[Natasha rides through the crowd, back on her motorcycle. She abandons it again and runs across the hoods of cars, in pursuit.]
Natasha Romanoff: I got the two on the left.
[Steve is also running across cars. He spots a vest in the middle of a crowd.]
Steve Rogers: They ditched their gear. It's a shell game now. One of them has the payload.
[Someone throws a bomb at Steve. It sticks on his shield. Steve throws it in the air and the bomb detonates safely away from citizens. Rumlow comes up behind Steve and punches him in the back.]
Brock Rumlow: There you are, you son of a bitch. Ive been waiting for this!
[Meanwhile, Sam is still chasing the other mercenaries. Sam flies up and takes out his two, then searches their bags for the payload.]
Sam Wilson: He doesn't have it. Im empty.
[Natasha is chasing the soldiers through the crowd.]
Natasha Romanoff: Out of the way!
[She tackles one soldier and engages him in combat. When the other soldier arrives, she hurls a basket at him to distract him. She uses her skills to fight them and ends up face-to-face with one soldier. They point their guns at each other. A moment passes. Then, the other soldier produces the vial.]
Mercenary #1: Drop it. Or Ill drop this. Drop it!
Mercenary #2: He'll do it!
[Redwing descends and fires at the soldier with the vial. He drops, and in the moment of distraction, Natasha fires at the other soldier, then catches the falling vial.]
Natasha Romanoff: Payload secure. Thanks, Sam.
Sam Wilson: Don't thank me.
Natasha Romanoff: Im not thanking that thing.
Sam Wilson: His name is Redwing.
Natasha Romanoff: I'm still not thanking it.
Sam Wilson: He's cute. Go ahead, pet him.
[Steve and Rumlow are still fighting, neither one seeming to have the upper hand.]
Brock Rumlow: Come on!
[Rumlow pins Steve to a building and extends a blade from one of his gauntlets.]
Brock Rumlow: This is for dropping a building on my face.
[Steve grabs Rumlow's arm and pulls the gauntlet off, only for Rumlow to reveal another knife. But Steve bests him. Defeated, on his knees, Rumlow removes his mask, revealing a scarred face.]
Brock Rumlow: I think I look pretty good, all things considered.
Steve Rogers: Who's your buyer?
Brock Rumlow: You know, he knew you. You pal, your buddy, your Bucky.
Steve Rogers: What did you say?
Brock Rumlow: He remembered you. I was there. He got all weepy about it. Till they put his brain back in a blender. He wanted you to know something. He said to me, "Please tell Rogers. When you gotta go, you gotta go." And you're coming with me.
[He activates his bomb vest and Steve flinches as Rumlow's armor ignites, but Wanda keeps the blast contained around Rumlow who grimaces in agony. She lifts him into the air before she loses control, and the explosion finally blossoms, devastating entire floors of a nearby office building. Wanda sees what happened and is scarred by it.]
Steve Rogers: Oh my . . . [Steve stares up.] Sam . . . We need . . . Fire and Rescue . . . on the south side of the building. We gotta get up there.
[Soft piano is playing. Tony Stark's mother, Maria, sits at a piano. A young Tony is on the couch.]
Maria Stark: Try to remember the kind of September. When grass was green . . . [She stops singing as Howard Stark walks in, but continues playing.] Wake up, dear, and say goodbye to your father.
Howard Stark: Who's the homeless person on the couch?
[Tony, wearing a Santa hat, staggers to his feet and chuckles.]
Young Tony Stark: This is why I love coming home for Christmas . . . right before you leave town.
Maria Stark: Be nice, dear, he's been studying abroad.
Howard Stark: Really, which broad? What's her name?
Young Tony Stark: Candice.
[Howard pulls of Tony's hat.]
Howard Stark: Do me a favor? Try not to burn the house down before Monday.
Young Tony Stark: Okay, so it's Monday. That is good to know. I will plan my toga party accordingly. Where you going?
Maria Stark: Your father's flying us to the Bahamas for a little getaway.
Howard Stark: We might have to make a quick stop.
Young Tony Stark: At the Pentagon. Right? Don't worry, you're gonna love the holiday menu at the commissary.
[Maria stops playing the piano.]
Howard Stark: You know, they say sarcasm is a metric for potential. If that's true, you'll be a great man some day. I'll get the bags.
[He walks out of the room, and Maria stands up.]
Maria Stark: He does miss you when you are not here. And frankly, you're going to miss us. Because this is the last time we're all going to be together. You know what's about to happen. Say something. If you don't, you'll regret it.
[Howard walks back in.]
Young Tony Stark: I love you, Dad. And I know you did the best you could.
[Maria leans in to kiss Tony on the cheek, and when she leans back, an older Tony Stark is standing in the background. Howard and Maria walk out, leaving the two Tonys.]
Tony Stark: That's how I wished it happened. Binarily Augmented Retro-Framing, or BARF. God, I gotta work on that acronym. An extremely costly method of hijacking the hippocampus to . . . clear traumatic memories. Huh.
[He blows on a candle and everything around him shimmers, then starts to dissolve. It's a hologram.]
Tony Stark: It doesn't change the fact that they never made it to the airport . . . or all the things I did to avoid processing my grief, but . . . [He takes off his glasses.] Plus, 611 million dollars for my little therapeutic experiment? No one in the right mind would've ever funded it.
[He is standing on a stage in front of a large crowd. A sign reads MIT Alumni Honors: Tony Stark.]
Tony Stark: Help me out, what's the MIT mission statement? "To generate, disseminate . . . and preserve knowledge. And work with others . . . to bring it to bear on the world's great challenges." Well, you are the others. And, quiet as it's kept . . . the challenges facing you are the greatest mankind's ever known. Plus, most of you are broke.
[The crowd chuckles.]
Tony Stark: Oh, I'm sorry. Rather, you were. As of this moment . . . every student has been made an equal recipient of the Inaugural September Foundation Grant. As in . . . all of your projects have just been approved and funded.
[The crowd breaks out in applause and cheering.]
Tony Stark: No strings, no taxes just re-frame the future! Starting now.
[The teleprompter above the audience reads. 'Now I would like to introduce the head of the foundation: Pepper Potts.' Tony stares at it sadly.]
Tony Stark: Go break some eggs.
[He exits the stage.]
MIT teacher: Wow. Wow. That uh . . . that took my breathe away. Oh, Tony! So generous. So much money! Wow! Out of curiosity . . . will any portion of that grant be made available to faculty? I know, "Ooh, gross," but hear me out. I have got this killer idea for a self-cooking hot dog. Basically, chemical detonator embedded . . .
[Tony is not listening.]
Tony Stark: Restroom's this way, yeah?
MIT teacher: Yeah. Embedded in the meat shaft.
Stark's Assistant: Mr. Stark, I am so sorry about the teleprompter. I didn't know Miss Potts had cancelled. They didn't have time to fix it.
Tony Stark: It's . . . fine. I'll be right back.
MIT teacher: We'll catch up later.
[Tony steps into a quiet corridor. He loiters by the men's room, then glances back at the stage door before walking towards the elevator. A woman in sober clothes is also waiting. Tony stops and turns his back to the wall.]
Mrs. Spencer: That was nice, what you did for those young people.
Tony Stark: Ah, they deserve it. Plus, it helps ease my conscience.
Mrs. Spencer: They say there's a correlation between generosity and guilt. But if you've got the money . . . break as many eggs as you like. Right?
[He narrows his eyes and half smiles, then turns to face the elevator. He looks surprised to find the button unlit and pushes it himself.]
Tony Stark: Are you going up?
Mrs. Spencer: I'm right where I want to be.
[She digs in her handbag, Tony grabs her wrist. He realizes what he's done.]
Tony Stark: Okay, okay. Hey! Sorry, it's an occupational hazard.
Mrs. Spencer: I work for the State Department. Human Resources. I know it's boring . . . but it enabled me to raise a son. I'm very proud of what he grew up to be.
[She shoves a photo at him.]
Mrs Spencer: His name was Charlie Spencer. You murdered him. In Sokovia. Not that it matters in the least to you. You think you fight for us. You just fight for yourself.
[Tony shakes his head.]
Mrs Spencer: Who's going to avenge my son, Stark? He's dead . . . and I blame you.
[She turns and walks away, leaving Tony standing by the elevator with a grim frown.]
[At the Avengers Compound. Steve catches Wanda watching a news report on the Lagos attack and how they blame her for it.]
News Anchor #1: 11 Wakandans were among those killed during a confrontation between the Avengers and a group of mercenaries in Lagos, Nigeria, last month. The traditionally reclusive Wakandans were on an outreach mission in Lagos when the attack occurred.
King T'Chaka: Our people's blood is spilled on foreign soil. Not only because of the actions of criminals, but by the indifference of those pledged to stop them. Victory at the expense of the innocent, is no victory at all.
News Anchor #1: The Wakanda king went on to . . .
[Steve, who was watching the news, turns his computer off, but sound drifts toward him from another room.]
News anchor #2: They are operating outside and above the international law. Because that's the reality, if we don't respond to acts like these.
[Wanda is sitting on her bed, watching the news on her TV.]
News Anchor #2 What legal authority does an enhanced individual like Wanda Maximoff have to operate in Nigeri -
[The TV turns off. Steve sets the remote down and leans on the door frame.]
Wanda Maximoff: It's my fault.
Steve Rogers: That's not true.
Wanda Maximoff: Turn the TV back on. They're being very specific.
Steve Rogers: I should've clocked that bomb vest long before you had to deal with it.
[He walks over.]
Steve Rogers: Rumlow said "Bucky" and . . . all of a sudden I was a 16-year-old kid again, in Brooklyn. [He sits beside Wanda.]
Steve Rogers: And people died. It's on me.
Wanda Maximoff: It's on both of us.
Steve Rogers: This job . . . we try to save as many people as we can. Sometimes that doesn't mean everybody. But if we can't find a way to live with that, next time . . . maybe nobody gets saved.
[Vision materializes through the wall. Wanda starts.]
[Vision interrupts Wanda and Steve by walking through the wall into Wandas room]
Wanda Maximoff: Vis! We talked about this.
Vision: Yes, but the door was open so I assumed that . . .
[He gestures at the door and stops.]
Vision: Captain Rogers wished to know when Mr. Stark was arriving.
Steve Rogers: Thank you. We'll be right down.
Vision: I'll . . . use the door. Oh, and apparently, he's brought a guest.
Steve Rogers: We know who it is?
Vision: The Secretary of State.
[The Secretary of State, Thaddeus Ross, is standing at the head of a table. Rhodey, Natasha, Steve, Tony, Sam, Vision, and Wanda are gathered around.]
[The Secretary of State Thaddeus Ross has summoned the Avengers to a meeting]
Secretary Ross: Five years ago, I had a heart attack. I dropped right in the middle of my back-swing. Turned out it was the best round of my life, because after 13 hours of surgery and a triple bypass . . . I found something 40 years in the Army had never taught me: Perspective. The world owes the Avengers an un-payable debt. You have fought for us, protected us, risked your lives . . . but while a great many people see you as heroes, there are some . . . who would prefer the word "vigilantes".
Natasha Romanoff: And what word would you use, Mr. Secretary?
Secretary Ross: How about "dangerous"? What would you call a group of US-based, enhanced individuals who routinely ignore sovereign borders and inflict their will wherever they choose and who, frankly, seem unconcerned about what they leave behind?
[Ross activates a screen behind him. News footage from past Avengers and SHIELD matters flash on the screen as he speaks.]
Secretary Ross: New York.
[A Chitauri leviathan. Terrified citizens. A soldier firing a gun. The Hulk smashes into a building and sends a dust cloud to engulf the camera.]
[Rhodey looks regretful. He glances behind him at Natasha.]
Secretary Ross: Washington DC.
[The three Insight helicarriers, firing on each other. The destroyed Triskelion. A helicarrier crashing into the Potomac and throwing up a massive wave, engulfing citizens and the camera.]
[Sam looks down.]
Secretary Ross: Sokovia.
[Terrified citizens, running. The city rising. A building falling over.]
[Wanda stares at the screen, as does Tony.]
Secretary Ross: Lagos.
[The burning building. Paramedics moving a body. A dead girl.]
[Wanda is particularly affected by the footage from Lagos. Steve sees this and intervenes.]
Steve Rogers: Okay. That's enough.
[Secretary Ross nods to an aide and the images disappear.]
Secretary Ross: For the past four years, you've operated with unlimited power and no supervision. That's an arrangement the governments of the world can no longer tolerate. But I think we have a solution. [he places a thick document on the desk and passes it to Wanda]
[An aide hands him a thick book, which Ross slides across the table to Wanda. She picks it up, then slides it to Rhodey.]
Secretary Ross: The Sokovia Accords. Approved by 117 countries . . . it states that the Avengers shall no longer be a private organization. Instead, they'll operate under the supervision of a United Nations panel, only when and if that panel deems it necessary.
Steve Rogers: The Avengers were formed to make the world a safer place. I feel we've done that.
Secretary Ross: Tell me, Captain, do you know where Thor and Banner are right now?
[Steve looks up and meets Ross's eyes.]
Secretary Ross: If I misplaced a couple of 30 megaton nukes . . . you can bet there'd be consequences. Compromise. Reassurance. That's how the world works. Believe me, this is the middle ground.
James Rhodes: So, there are contingencies.
Secretary Ross: Three days from now, the UN meets in Vienna to ratify the Accords.
[Steve glances at Tony.]
Secretary Ross: Talk it over.
Natasha Romanoff: And if we come to a decision you don't like?
Secretary Ross: Then you retire.
[Natasha stifles a smile.]
[Cleveland.]
[Vasily Karpov sits, eating at the table in a cluttered house. He hears the sound of something crashing outside and peers through drawn blinds. Outside, Helmut Zemo stands by his car, the front end crumpled against Karpov's car.]
Helmut Zemo: Hello? Is this your car out front?
[Zemo comes to the door.]
Helmut Zemo: I jumped the curb.
[Karpov eyes his gun nearby.]
Helmut Zemo: Maybe we could take care of it ourselves. If you wanna call the cops, tha--that's okay too, I guess.
Vasily Karpov: No. No cops.
Helmut Zemo: Thank you.
[Karpov slides a heavy duty lock and opens the door. Zemo punches him.]
[Zemo is using a sledgehammer to smash a hole in the wall. He retrieves a large box from inside the hole and tips the contents onto a table. Karpov is hanging upside down, tied to pipes in his basement. There are various documents and the red book with the star on the cover. He holds the red book for a moment then opens a file. Inside is a photo of Karpov in his military uniform and beret.]
Helmut Zemo: You have kept your looks, Colonel. Congratulations.
[Karpov's head is in a sink, which is filling with water.]
Helmut Zemo: "Mission report: December 16, 1991."
Vasily Karpov: Who are you?
Helmut Zemo: My name is Zemo. I will repeat my question. Mission report. December 16, 1991.
Vasily Karpov: How did you find me?
Helmut Zemo: When SHIELD fell, Black Widow released HYDRA files to the public. Millions of pages much of it encrypted, not easy to decipher. But . . . I have experience. And patience. A man can do anything if he has those.
Vasily Karpov: What do you want?
Helmut Zemo: Mission report. December 16. 1991.
Vasily Karpov: Go . . . to . . . hell.
[Zemo goes to lean on the sink as water continues to flow into it. He turns off the tap and studies Karpov's upside down face.]
Helmut Zemo: HYDRA deserves its place on the ash heap. So your death would not bother me. But I'd have to use this book . . . and other bloodier methods to find what I need. I don't look forward to that. You'd only be dying for . . . your pride.
[Zemo stares at Karpov then nods resignedly. He turns the tap back on. The water is up to Karpov's eyes. Zemo watches the water level rise.]
Vasily Karpov: Hail HYDRA.
[Holding the red book Zemo walks away. Karpov twitches and struggles in his bindings.]
[The Avengers are gathered at HQ. Steve is sitting, studying the Accords, while Rhodey and Sam argue behind him.]
James Rhodes: Secretary Ross has a Congressional Medal of Honor, which is one more than you have.
Sam Wilson: So let's say we agree to this thing. How long is it gonna be before they LoJack us like a bunch of common criminals?
James Rhodes: A 117 countries want to sign this. 117, Sam, and you're just like, "No, that's cool. We got it. "
Sam Wilson: How long are you going to play both sides?
Vision: I have an equation.
Sam Wilson: Oh, this will clear it up.
Vision: In the eight years since Mr. Stark announced himself as Iron Man, the number of known enhanced persons has grown exponentially. And during the same period, the number of potentially world-ending events has risen at a commensurate rate.
Steve Rogers: Are you saying it's our fault?
Vision: I'm saying there may be a causality. Our very strength invites challenge. Challenge incites conflict. And conflict . . . breeds catastrophe. Oversight . . . oversight is not an idea that can be dismissed out of hand.
James Rhodes: Boom.
[Tony is lying on the couch. When Natasha speaks, he looks at her.]
Natasha Romanoff: Tony. You are being uncharacteristically non-hyper-verbal.
Steve Rogers: It's because he's already made up his mind.
Tony Stark: Boy, you know me so well.
[He gets up and winces, rubbing the back of his head.]
Tony Stark: Actually, I'm nursing an electromagnetic headache.
[He walks to the kitchen and grabs a mug.]
Tony Stark: That's what's going on, Cap. It's just pain. It's discomfort. Who's putting coffee grounds in the disposal? Am I running a bed and breakfast for a biker gang?
[He puts his phone in a basket and taps it.The phone projects an image of a smiling young man. He looks down, then back up, and pretends to notice the picture for the first time.]
Tony Stark: Oh, that's Charles Spencer, by the way. He's a great kid. Computer engineering degree, 3.6 GPA. Had a floor level gig at Intel planned for the fall. But first, he wanted to put a few miles on his soul, before he parked it behind a desk. See the world. Maybe be of service. Charlie didn't want to go to Vegas or Fort Lauderdale, which is what I would do. He didn't go to Paris or Amsterdam, which sounds fun. He decided to spend his summer building sustainable housing for the poor. Guess where, Sokovia.
[The others look affected by this .]
Tony Stark: He wanted to make a difference, I suppose. I mean, we won't know because we dropped a building on him while we were kicking ass. [He takes a pill with some coffee, then faces the others.]
Tony Stark: There's no decision-making process here. We need to be put in check! Whatever form that takes, I'm game. If we can't accept limitations, if we're boundary-less, we're no better than the bad guys.
Steve Rogers: Tony, someone dies on your watch, you don't give up.
Tony Stark: Who said we're giving up?
Steve Rogers: We are if we're not taking responsibility for our actions. This document just shifts the blames.
James Rhodes: I'm sorry. Steve. That - that is dangerously arrogant. This is the United Nations we're talking about. It's not the World Security Council, it's not SHIELD, it's not HYDRA.
Steve Rogers: No, but it's run by people with agendas, and agendas change.
Tony Stark: That's good. That's why I'm here. When I realized what my weapons were capable of in the wrong hands, I shut it down and stop manufacturing.
Steve Rogers: Tony, you chose to do that. If we sign this, we surrender our right to choose. What if this panel sends us somewhere we don't think we should go? What if there is somewhere we need to go, and they don't let us? We may not be perfect, but the safest hands are still our own.
Tony Stark: If we don't do this now, it's gonna be done to us later. That's the fact. That won't be pretty.
Wanda Maximoff: You're saying they'll come for me.
Vision: We would protect you.
Natasha Romanoff: Maybe Tony's right.
[Tony looks at her, surprised.]
Natasha Romanoff: If we have one hand on the wheel, we can still steer. If we take it off -
Sam Wilson: Aren't you the same woman who told the government to kiss her ass a few years ago?
Natasha Romanoff: I'm just . . . I'm reading the terrain. We have made . . . some very public mistakes. We need to win their trust back.
Tony Stark: Focus up. I'm sorry, did I just mishear you or did you agree with me?
Natasha Romanoff: Oh, I want to take it back now.
Tony Stark: No, no, no. You can't retract it. Thank you. Unprecedented. Okay, case closed--I win.
[Steve's phone buzzes, and he pulls it out to check it. A text message reads: 'She's gone. In her sleep.']
Steve Rogers: I have to go.
[Steve gets up sharply, drops the Accords on the coffee table, and goes downstairs. He stops at the bottom of the stairs, leans against the banister, and bows his head.]
[London.]
[A cathedral, packed with mourners. A choir is singing. Steve is one of six pallbearers carrying a coffin draped with the Union Jack. His eyes are red--he's been crying.]
[At the altar, a candle burns by a framed photograph of Peggy Carter in a military uniform. The label reads "Margaret 'Peggy' Carter". The priest addresses the mourners.]
Priest: And now, I would like to invite Sharon Carter to come up and say a few words.
[Agent 13, Steve's "neighbor" from DC, steps up to the podium.]
[Steve sits beside Sam in a pew at the front. Steve is looking down and doesn't see Sharon walk up. Sam is watching, and nudges Steve. He looks up to see Sharon, who glances at Steve and takes a breath.]
Sharon Carter: Margaret Carter was known to most as a founder of SHIELD . . . but I just knew her as Aunt Peggy.
[Steve realizes who exactly Sharon is, and takes a surprised breath.]
Sharon Carter: She had a photograph in her office. Aunt Peggy standing next to JFK. As a kid, that was pretty cool. But it was a lot to live up to. Which is why I never told anyone we were related.
[She looks directly at Steve.]
Sharon Carter: I asked her once how she managed to master diplomacy and espionage in a time when no one wanted to see a woman succeed at either. And she said, compromise where you can. But where you can't, don't. Even if everyone is telling you that something wrong is something right. Even if the whole world is telling you to move . . . it is your duty to plant yourself like a tree, look them in they eye and say " No, you move."
[Later, Steve stands alone in the isle, still dressed in black. Natasha to him and he turns to her. He begins to speak without any introduction]
Steve Rogers: When I came out of the ice, I thought everyone I had known was gone. Then I found out that she was alive. I was just lucky to have her.
Natasha Romanoff: She had you back, too.
Steve Rogers: Who else signed?
Natasha Romanoff: Tony. Rhodey. Vision.
Steve Rogers: Clint?
Natasha Romanoff: Says he's retired.
[She smiles slightly.]
Steve Rogers: Wanda?
Natasha Romanoff: TBD (To Be Determined). I'm off to Vienna for the signing of the Accords. There's plenty of room on the jet.
[Steve sighs and bows his head.]
Natasha Romanoff: Just because it's the path of least resistance doesn't mean it's the wrong path. Staying together is more important than how we stay together.
[Natasha almost seems to be convincing herself.]
Steve Rogers: What are we giving up to do it?
[She sighs. He shakes his head, unconvinced.]
Steve Rogers: I'm sorry, Nat. I can't sign it.
Natasha Romanoff: I know.
Steve Rogers: Then what are you doing here?
Natasha Romanoff: I didn't want you to be alone.
[She pulls him in for a hug.]
Natasha Romanoff: Come here.
[Vienna.]
[The United Nations, a modern complex of interestingly-shaped high rise buildings.]
News Anchor #3: At a special United Nations conference 117 countries have come together to ratify the Sokovia Accords.
[T'Challa wears a sharp suit and stands, looking through a glass wall.]
UN staffer: Excuse me, Miss Romanoff?
Natasha Romanoff: Yes?
UN staffer: These need your signature. [T'Challa looks over at Natasha.] Thank you.
Natasha Romanoff: Thanks.
T'Challa: I suppose neither of us is used to the spotlight.
Natasha Romanoff: Oh, well, it's not always so flattering.
T'Challa: You seem to be doing alright so far. Considering your last trip to Capitol Hill . . . I wouldn't think you would be particularly comfortable in this company.
Natasha Romanoff: Well, I'm not.
T'Challa: That alone makes me glad you're here, Miss Romanoff.
Natasha Romanoff: Why? You don't approve of all this?
T'Challa: The Accords, yes. The politics, not really. Two people in a room can get more done than a hundred.
King T'Chaka: Unless you need to move a piano.
T'Challa: Father.
King T'Chaka: Son. Miss Romanoff.
Natasha Romanoff: King T'Chaka. Please, allow me to apologize for what happened in Nigeria.
King T'Chaka: Thank you. Thank you for agreeing to all this. I'm sad to hear that Captain Rogers will not be joining us today.
Natasha Romanoff: Yes, so am I.
Man on speakers: If everyone could please be seated. This assembly is now in session.
T'Challa: That is the future calling. Such a pleasure.
Natasha Romanoff: Thank you. [Natasha goes.]
King T'Chaka: For a man who disapproves of diplomacy, you're getting quite good at it.
T'Challa: I'm happy, Father.
King T'Chaka: Thank you.
T'Challa: Thank you.
King T'Chaka: When stolen Wakandan vibranium was used to make a terrible weapon, we in Wakanda were forced to question our legacy. Those men and women killed in Nigeria, were part of a goodwill mission from a country too long in the shadows. We will not, however, let misfortune drive us back. We will fight to improve the world we wish to join. I am grateful to the Avengers for supporting this initiative. [T'Challa spots something outside.] Wakanda is proud to extend its hand in peace.
T'Challa: EVERYBODY GET DOWN!
[An enormous explosion goes off between two buildings and destroys the conference hall. T'Challa finds his father lying on the floor with his eyes closed. He grabs his father's wrist and feels for a pulse, but his father lies still. Devastated T'Challa lies across his father. He lifts him up and rocks him in his arms.]
[A hotel.]
Sharon Carter: My mom tried to talk me out of enlisting, but, um, not Aunt Peggy. She bought me my first thigh holster.
Steve Rogers: Very practical.
Sharon Carter: And stylish. [Sharon and Steve wait by an elevator. They stand facing each other.]
Steve Rogers: CIA has you stationed over here now?
Sharon Carter: In Berlin, Joint Terrorism Task Force.
Steve Rogers: Right. Right. Sounds fun.
Sharon Carter: I know, right?
Steve Rogers: [Steve nods and smiles at Sharon.] I've been meaning to ask you. When you were spying on me from across the hall . . . .
Sharon Carter: You mean when I was doing my job.
Steve Rogers: Did Peggy know?
Sharon Carter: She kept so many secrets. I didn't want her to have one from you. [The elevator arrives.] Thanks for walking me back.
Steve Rogers: Sure. [Sam comes over.]
Sam Wilson: Steve. There's something you gotta see.
News anchor #4: A bomb hidden in a news van . . .
Sharon Carter: Who's coordinating?
News anchor #4: . . . ripped through the UN building in Vienna.
Sharon Carter: Good. They're solid. Forensics?
News anchor #4: More than 70 people have been injured. At least 12 are dead, including Wakanda's King T'Chaka. Officials have released a video of a suspect who they have identified as James Buchanan Barnes, the Winter Soldier. The infamous HYDRA agent, linked to numerous acts of terrorism and political assassinations.
Sharon Carter: I have to go to work.
[Fire crews hose down the buildings. A red and white medical chopper flies overhead.]
Sharon Carter: Call MI-6, see if we can get Micro Forensics to hurry this up. We need the whole team here in two hours or it's not worth it. [Sharon strides through with a man in a green jumpsuit. They pass T'Challa who sits on a bench looking stunned. There's a cut on his head. Natasha sits on the next bench along.]
Natasha Romanoff: I'm very sorry.
T'Challa: [He glances at her. He's holding an ornate silver ring which he toys with between his fingers.] In my culture death is not the end. It's more of a . . . stepping-off point. You reach out with both hands and Bast and Sekhmet, they lead you into the green veldt where . . . you can run forever.
Natasha Romanoff: That sounds very peaceful.
T'Challa: My father thought so. [He puts the ring on his finger.] I am not my father.
Natasha Romanoff: T'Challa. Task force will decide who brings in Barnes.
T'Challa: [He clenches his fist.] Don't bother, Miss Romanoff. I'll kill him myself. [He walks away.]
[Steve phones Natasha. He's standing on the street in a cap and dark glasses.]
Natasha Romanoff: Yeah?
Steve Rogers: You alright?
Natasha Romanoff: Ah, yeah, thanks. I got lucky. [Frowning she looks around, then stands up.] I know how much Barnes means to you. I really do. Stay home. You'll only make this worse. For all of us. Please.
Steve Rogers: Are you saying you'll arrest me?
Natasha Romanoff: No. Someone will. If you interfere. That's how it works now.
Steve Rogers: If he's this far gone, Nat, I should be the one to bring him in.
Natasha Romanoff: Why?
Steve Rogers: Because I'm the one least likely to die trying. [Not far away Steve ends the call.]
Natasha Romanoff: Shit.
[Steve approaches Sam sitting at the counter of a coffee shop.]
Sam Wilson: She tell you to stay out of it? [He's also in a cap and shades.] Might have a point.
Steve Rogers: He'd do it for me.
Sam Wilson: 1945, maybe. I just want to make sure we considered all our options. The people that shoot at you usually wind up shooting at me. [Sharon arrives by Steve.]
Sharon Carter: Tips have been pouring in since that footage went public. Everybody thinks the Winter soldier goes to their gym. Most of it's noise. Except for this. [She slides Steve a file.] My boss expects a briefing, pretty much now . . . so that's all the head start you're gonna get.
Steve Rogers: Thank you.
Sharon Carter: And you're gonna have to hurry. We have orders to shoot on sight.
[Zemo sits in a hotel room. He reads from Karpov's red book.]
Helmut Zemo:   .   . . .    . - ([subtitled] Homecoming. One. One. Fright Car.) [Knocking at the door. He puts the book in a drawer and goes to the door. He reaches for a gun tucked in the back of his trouser and cocks it.]
German Innkeeper: Herr Mller, ich habe Ihr Frhstck. ([subtitled] Mr. Mller. I have your breakfast.) [Zemo opens the door.]
Helmut Zemo: Ich konnte es schon von weitem riechen. Danke. ([subtitled] I could smell it before I opened the door. Thank you.)
German Innkeeper: Speck und schwarzer Kaffe. Wieder. Ich kann Ihnen auch was anderes machen, wenn Sie das mchten. ([subtitled] Side of bacon and black coffee. Again. I can make you something different, if you like.)
Helmut Zemo: Bitte sehr, das ist wunderbar. ([subtitled] It's okay. This is wonderful.)
German Innkeeper: Ich stell es dann mal hier hin ([subtitled] I'll put this on your . . .)
Helmut Zemo: Nein, nein. Das geht schon. Ich mach das. Vielen Dank, Frau Leiber. ([subtitled] No, no. It's okay. I can manage. Thank you Mrs. Leiber.) [Zemo closes the door. In the room is a large device with a cage at the bottom and a drum of coppered wire on top.]
[Bucharest. Bucky is in civvies at a fruit store. He buys some plums!]
Bucky Barnes: [talking to the vendor in Romanian] ([assumed translation] How are they? Are they good? Give me six, thank you.[2])
[In a black cap and casual jacket Bucky walks along scanning around. Across the street he spots a twenty-something vender at a news-stand watching him. Bucky glances away, then looks back at the vender who's still watching him. The vender runs from his kiosk. Bucky goes over and picks up a paper. On the front page there are surveillance-photos of a man and the head line: 'Winter Soldier cautat pentru Bombardmentul din Viena'. Bucky glances around tensely.]
[In his dark blue, armored suit with his shield on his arm Steve is in a small apartment. He looks around, there's a mattress with disheveled covers and various bits of cheap looking furniture. The kitchen and bedroom are in the same room. Steve finds a notebook on top of the fridge. He picks it up and opens it. There are tabs of varying colors sticking out from amongst the pages.]
Sam Wilson: [on radio] Heads up, Cap. German Special Forces, approaching from the south.
Steve Rogers: Understood. [Bucky's standing behind Steve. Steve slowly turns around to face him.] Do you know me?
Bucky Barnes: [Bucky stares at him.] You're Steve. I read about you in a museum.
Sam Wilson: They've set the perimeter.
Steve Rogers: I know you're nervous. And you have plenty of reason to be. But you're lying.
Bucky Barnes: I wasn't in Vienna. I don't do that anymore.
Sam Wilson: They're entering the building.
Steve Rogers: Well, the people who think you did are coming here now. And they're not planning on taking you alive.
Bucky Barnes: That's smart. Good strategy.
Sam Wilson: They're on the roof. I'm compromised.
[Armed cops run upstairs.]
Steve Rogers: This doesn't have end in a fight, Buck.
[Outside the door a cop readies a battering ram.]
Bucky Barnes: It always ends in a fight.
Sam Wilson: 5 seconds.
Steve Rogers: You pulled me from the river. Why?
Bucky Barnes: I don't know.
Sam Wilson: 3 seconds!
Steve Rogers: Yes, you do.
Sam Wilson: Breach! Breach! Breach! [A grenade crashes through the window. Bucky kicks it to Steve, and he smothers it with his shield.]
GSG-9 Soldier: Schie die Tr auf! (Shoot the door!) [The cop slams the battering ram against the door. Bucky shields himself with the mattress against an attack from the window. He blocks the door with a table as cops swing in on cables. Steve pulls the rug from under a policeman, sending him flying. Bucky slams another policeman into the wall.]
Steve Rogers: Buck, stop! You're gonna kill someone.
Bucky Barnes: [Bucky slams Steve down and punches a hole in the floor.] I'm not gonna kill anyone.
[Bucky grabs a backpack from under the floorboards and throws it out of the window. Bucky and Steve get behind Steve's shield to avoid gunfire. Bucky shoves Steve and he knocks a cop over. Bucky holds up his metal hand and repells bullets, then slams a cop into shelves. Bucky picks up a large cement brick and slams it into a cop. Steve fights a cop on the balcony. A cop shoots around the door outside. Bucky punches through the wall beside he door. He lays into the cops. A cop descends through a sky-light on a zip wire. Bucky grabs the cop's gun and slams him into the wall. Bucky bashes a couple of cops with the battering ram. More of the police team hurry up the stairwell. Bucky jumps on the zip-line-guy and swings down a level.]
GSG-9 Soldier: Der Verdchtige ist ausgebrochen. Er ist am stlichen Treppenschacht. ([subtitled] Suspect has broken containment! He's headed down the east stairwell!)
[Steve grabs the radio and crushes it. Steve jumps down a level as Bucky keeps punching the cops. Bucky tosses one of them over the railing and Steve catches him, stopping the cop from falling. He looks at Bucky wearily.]
Steve Rogers: Come on, man.
[Steve throws the cop up onto the landing. Bucky breaks a banister and swings down on it. Steve hurls a cop over his shoulders. Bucky lays into jet more cops and takes them out. A cop aims at Bucky and Steve knocks the gun from his hands with his shield which sticks in the wall. Bucky leaps down the stairwell and catches onto a railing. Steve pulls his shiel out of the wall. Bucky climbs up then runs along a corridor and leaps off a balcony. He tumbles onto the lower roof of the neighboring building where he finds where his backpack. he picks it up and runs.]
[A muscular man clad entirely in black, Black Panther, slams into Bucky from behind, knocking him down. He has a full face mask with pointed ears. He extends his fingers and sharp claws pop out. He attacks Bucky with sweeping kicks and slashes. Bucky fights back but is kicked into a wall. Black Panther swipes his claws and spins gracefully. Bucky narrowly avoids being slashed, he holds up a metal bar to protect himself.]
[Steve looks down at them as Falcon swoops from the sky.]
Steve Rogers: Sam, southwest rooftop.
Sam Wilson: Who the hell's the other guy?
Steve Rogers: About to find out.
[Steve leaps from the balcony down onto the neighboring building as a chopper flies up. Black Panther lunges at Bucky with his claws, but Bucky grabs his wrists. A soldier fires a machine gun from the chopper. The ammo bounces off Black Panther's armored suit.]
Steve Rogers: Sam.
Sam Wilson: Got him. [Sam flies down and shoves the chopper off course. Then swoops towards street level.]
[Bucky breaks free from his attacker, slings his bag on his back, runs and jumps down a level. Black Panther slides down the wall using his claws for traction. Back lands at street level and the chase continues. Steve follows and lands rolling along the ground. Gunfire from the chopper tears up the sidewalk. Bucky jumps down through an opening and lands in an underpass, he runs through the traffic. Black Panther and Captain America drop down and chase after Bucky. A Special Forces Vehicle pursues them.]
GSG-9 Driver: Stand down! Stand down! [The vehicle closes in, blue lights flashing. Steve leaps onto the vehicle and splinters the windshield. The driver stops, Steve yanks him from the vehicle and kicks the windshield out, then drives off.]
[Bucky runs over the top of a speeding car, outpacing it. Black Panther is a few cars behind, keeping pace with Bucky. he leaps on the back of the 4x4 that Steve's driving. Steve swerves from side to side, trying to throw him off.]
Steve Rogers: Sam, I can't shake this guy.
Sam Wilson: Right behind you.
[Several police cars join the chase. Steve side-swipes another car and drives on.]
[Up ahead Bucky reaches a fork in the road and faces oncoming traffic. He leaps over a barrier. Steve drives through the barrier.]
[A motorbike speeds towards Bucky. Bucky grabs the handlebar and spins the bike around in mid air, throwing the rider off. Bcuky gets on the bike and rides away sending cars careering out of the way. Steve keeps on Bucky's tail with Black Panther holding onto the back of the 4x4. They all rocket through another underpass. Sam flies into the underpass. Black Panther leaps off the front of the 4x4 onto Bucky's motorbike. Bucky flings him over his head and the bike leans down on its side. Bucky kicks his assailant away, straightens up and rides on. Black Panther catches a ride on Falcon's leg. Sam tries to kick Black Panther away. Bucky throws a sticky bomb and blows up the roof at the end of the underpass, bringing down tons of rubble. Black Panther leaps off from Falcon and throws Bucky off the motorbike. Steve swerves the 4x4 through the rubble, leaps out and pulls Black Panther away from Bucky. Steve stands, facing sleek and muscular Black Panther. Armed police arrive and surround them, guns aimed. War Machine leaps down from above and raises both hands.]
James Rhodes: Stand down, now. [Bucky stands beside Steve who puts his shield on his back.] Congratulations, Cap. You're a criminal. [Police move in and force Bucky to his knees. Black Panther raises his hands. A cop moves Steve's arms behind his back. Black Panther retracts his claws and pulls off his mask revealing his face. It's T'Challa. Steve and Rhodes look curious.]
GSG-9 Soldier: Wie lautet der Befehl? (What's the order?)
James Rhodes: Your highness. [Bucky's hauled flat on the ground.]
[Avengers HQ. Vision follows a recipe.]
Vision: 'A pinch of paprika.' A pinch. [He adds a pinch. Wanda strolls in.]
Wanda Maximoff: Is that paprikash?
Vision: I thought it might . . . lift your spirits.
Wanda Maximoff: [She chuckles, stirs the ingredients in the pan with a spoon. She lifts the spoon to her lips, blows and has a taste. She smiles.] Spirits lifted.
Vision: In my defense, I haven't actually ever . . . eaten anything before, so . . .
Wanda Maximoff: May I?
Vision: Please. Wanda?
Wanda Maximoff: Hmm.
Vision: No one dislikes you, Wanda. [She frowns curiously.]
Wanda Maximoff: Thanks.
Vision: Oh, you're welcome. No, it's a . . . involuntary response in their amygdala. They can't help but be afraid of you.
Wanda Maximoff: Are you?
Vision: My amygdala is synthetic, so . . . [Wanda laughs.]
Wanda Maximoff: I used to think of myself one way. But after this . . . [her fingers glow.] I am something else. I'm still me, I think, but . . . that's not what everyone else sees.
Vision: [He touches the mind stone in his forehead.] Do you know, I don't know what this is? [It glows.] Not really. I know it's not of this world, that it powered Loki's staff, gave you your abilities, but . . . its true nature is a mystery. And yet, it is part of me.
Wanda Maximoff: Are you afraid of it?
Vision: I wish to understand it. The more I do, the less it controls me. One day . . . who knows? I may even control it.
Wanda Maximoff: [Wanda looks at the food.] I don't know what's in this but it is not paprika. I'm gonna go to the store. I'll be back in 20 minutes.
Vision: Alternatively, we could order a pizza?
Wanda Maximoff: Vision, are you not letting me leave?
Vision: [He blocks her way.] It is a question of safety.
Wanda Maximoff: I can protect myself.
Vision: [He holds her arm.] Not yours. Mr. Stark would like to avoid the possibility of another public incident. Until the Accords are on a . . . more secured foundation.
Wanda Maximoff: And what do you want?
Vision: For people to see you . . . as I do. [She looks at him gravely.]
[Berlin, day. Traffic rolls around the victory column. Police convoy drives beside the river Spree. Amidst the convoy is a gray armed truck. Inside Bucky wears restraints inside a prison pod. Three armed guards sit on the other side of the glass-walled pod. A police motorbike stops traffic and a van driver looks affronted. The convoy turns a corner onto a bridge across the river. In an SUV T'Challa sits in front of Steve who sits in front of Sam.]
Sam Wilson: So, you like cats?
Steve Rogers: Sam.
Sam Wilson: What? Dude shows up dressed like a cat and you don't wanna know more?
Steve Rogers: Your suit . . . t's Vibranium?
T'Challa: [T'Challes eyes narrow as he glances sideways.] The Black Panther has been the protector of Wakanda for generations. A mantle, passed from warrior to warrior. And now, because your friend murdered my father, I also wear the mantle of king. So, I ask you . . . as both warrior and king . . . how long do you think you can keep your friend safe from me? [Steve is stony faced as the convoy heads underground.]
[In a light gray walled bunker Bucky's pod is carried away by a forklift. Nearby Steve gets out of the SUV and glances across at Bucky who doesn't spot him. With Sam and T'Challa Steve approaches Sharon who's standing with a diminutive, gray-head man.]
Steve Rogers: What's gonna happen to him?
Everett Ross: Same thing that ought to happen to you. Psychological evaluation and extradition.
Sharon Carter: This is Everett Ross, Deputy Task Force Commander.
Steve Rogers: What about our lawyer?
Everett Ross: Lawyer. That's funny. See their weapons are placed in lockup. Oh, we'll write you a receipt.
Sam Wilson: I better not look out the window and see anybody flying around in that. [As they go Steve looks back and catches Bucky's eye.]
[On a covered sky walk.]
Everett Ross: You'll be provided with an office instead of a cell. Now, do me a favor, stay in it?
T'Challa: I don't intend on going anywhere.
Natasha Romanoff: For the record, this is what making things worse looks like.
Steve Rogers: He's alive.
Tony Stark: [on his phone] No. Romania was not Accords-sanctioned. And, Colonel Rhodes is supervising cleanup.
Natasha Romanoff: Try not to break anything while we fix this.
Tony Stark: [still on the phone.] Consequences? You bet there'll be consequences. Obviously you can quote me on that 'cause I just said it. Anything else? Thank you, sir.
Steve Rogers: 'Consequences'?
Tony Stark: Secretary Ross wants you both prosecuted. Had to give him something.
Steve Rogers: I'm not getting that shield back, am I?
Natasha Romanoff: Technically, it's the government's property. Wings, too.
Sam Wilson: That's cold.
Tony Stark: Warmer than jail.
[At a power station surrounded by trees the van with the driver who was affronted by the police convoy pulls up by the open gate. Scowling he puts the parking break on and picks up a clip board.]
Delivery Truck Driver: Das kann nicht richtig sein. Was zum Teufel? (This can't be right. What the hell?)
[In a secured chamber a guard connects a pipe to Bucky's prison pod. The lights inside dim for a moment.]
[Tony finds Steve in a glass-walled office overlooking the control room.]
Tony Stark: Hey, you wanna see something cool? I pulled something from Dad's archives. Felt timely. [Tony shows him two pens in a black presentation box.] FDR signed the Lend-Lease bill with these in 1941. Provided support to the Allies when they needed it most.
Steve Rogers: Some would say it brought our country closer to war.
Tony Stark: See? If not for these, you wouldn't be here. I'm trying to . . . what do you call it? That's an olive branch. Is that what you call it?
Steve Rogers: Is Pepper here? I didn't see her.
Tony Stark: We're kinda . . . well, not kinda . . .
Steve Rogers: Pregnant?
Tony Stark: No. Definitely not. We're taking a break. It's nobody's fault.
Steve Rogers: I'm so sorry, Tony. I didn't know.
Tony Stark: A few years ago, I almost lost her, so I trashed all my suits. Then, we had to mop up HYDRA . . . and then Ultron. My fault. And then, and then, and then, I never stopped. Because the truth is I don't wanna stop. I don't wanna lose her. I thought maybe the Accords could split the difference. [Tony stands up and paces.] In her defense, I'm a handful. Yet, Dad was a pain in the ass, but he and Mom always made it work.
Steve Rogers: You know, I'm glad Howard got married. I only knew him when he was young and single.
Tony Stark: Oh, really? You two knew each other? He never mentioned that. Maybe only a thousand times. God, I hated you.
Steve Rogers: I don't mean to make things difficult.
Tony Stark: I know, because you're a very polite person.
Steve Rogers: If I see a situation pointed south . . . I can't ignore it. Sometimes I wish I could.
Tony Stark: No, you don't.
Steve Rogers: [Steve smiles thinly.] No, I don't. Sometimes . . .
Tony Stark: Sometimes I wanna punch you in your perfect teeth. But I don't wanna see you gone. We need you, Cap. So far, nothing's happened that can't be undone, if you sign. We can make the last 24 hours legit. Barnes gets transferred to an American psych-center . . . instead of a Wakandan prison.
Steve Rogers: [Steve frowns thoughtfully and picks up one of the fountain pens. He stands up and paces, then turns to Tony. In the control room beyond there are multiple screens on the walls.] I'm not saying it's impossible, but there would have to be safeguards.
Tony Stark: Sure. Once we put out the PR fire, those documents can be amended. I'd file a motion to have you and Wanda reinstated . . .
Steve Rogers: Wanda? What about Wanda?
Tony Stark: She's fine. She's confined to the compound, currently. Vision's keeping her company.
Steve Rogers: Oh God, Tony! Every time. Every time I think you see things the right way . . .
Tony Stark: What? It's a 100 acres with a lap pool. It's got a screening room. There's worse ways to protect people.
Steve Rogers: Protection? Is that how you see this? This is protection? It's internment, Tony.
Tony Stark: She's not a US citizen.
Steve Rogers: Oh, come on, Tony.
Tony Stark: And they don't grant visas to weapons of mass destruction.
Steve Rogers: She's a kid!
Tony Stark: GIVE ME A BREAK! I'm doing what has to be done . . . to stave off something worse.
Steve Rogers: [Steve nods faintly.] You keep telling yourself that. [He puts the pen down.] Hate to break up the set. [He leaves the office and rueful Tony watches Bucky on one of the control room's screens.]
Helmut Zemo: [The evaluator sits at a desk facing Bucky's pod. Inside Bucky's still restrained.] Hello, Mr. Barnes. I've been sent by the United Nations to evaluate you. Do you mind if I sit? Your first name is James?
Sharon Carter: [In an office with Sam and Steve.] The receipt for your gear.
Sam Wilson: 'Bird costume'? Come on.
Sharon Carter: I didn't write it. [Sharon pushes a button witch stops the restriction on the audio from Bucky's evaluation.]
Helmut Zemo: I'm not here to judge you. I just want to ask you a few questions. Do you know where you are, James? I can't help you if you don't talk to me, James.
Bucky Barnes: My name is Bucky.
[At the power station. The van driver honks and looks impatient watching the custodian's hut's front door.]
Delivery Truck Driver: Hallo? ([subtitled] Hello?) [The custodian comes outside and the driver comes out of his van.] Hey. Ich hab eine groe fr dich. ([subtitled] Hey. I have a big one for you.) [He opens the van's back doors and removes a large wooden crate.] Ja. Okay, hier unterzeichnen. (Okay. Here. Just sign here.)
Custodian: Hier? (Here?)
Delivery Truck Driver: Ja. (Yeah.) [The custodian signs for the crate.]
[At the UN-bunker Steve studies the blurry photograph of the man who bombed the congress in Vienna.]
Steve Rogers: Why would the Task Force release this photo to begin with?
Sharon Carter: Get the word out, involve as many eyes as we can?
Steve Rogers: Right. It's a good way to flush a guy out of hiding. Set off a bomb, get your picture taken. Get seven billion people looking for the Winter Soldier.
Sharon Carter: You're saying someone framed him to find him.
Sam Wilson: Steve, we looked for the guy for two years and found nothing.
Steve Rogers: We didn't bomb the UN. That turns a lot of heads.
Sharon Carter: Yeah, but that doesn't guarantee that whoever framed him would get him. It guarantees that we would. [Sharon's gaze falls on the evaluator in the screen, her eyes narrow.]
Steve Rogers: [Steve frowns and looks around.] Yeah.
Helmut Zemo: [In the secure chamber.] Tell me, Bucky. You've seen a great deal, haven't you?
Bucky Barnes: I don't want to talk about it.
Helmut Zemo: You fear that if you open your mouth, the horrors might never stop. Don't worry. [Zemo gets a message on his screen: 'message inbox:1' touches it 'status: package delivered'.] We only have to talk about one.
[At the power station the custodian opens the crate. Finding Zemo's large device inside, he looks confused. The driver is at the back door of his van.]
Custodian: Hey, was ist das? (Hey. What is this?)
Delivery Truck Driver: Ich wei es nicht. (I don't know.)
[The device erupts. A bubble of energy engulfs the power station and sparks fly. In the city traffic lights fail. In the bunker the lights go out.]
Everett Ross: Great. Come on, guys, get me eyes on Barnes. Go.
Tony Stark: FRIDAY, get me the source of that outage.
Sharon Carter: [In the office.] Sub-level 5, east wing. [T'Challa spots Steve and Sam bolting.]
[In Bucky's pod.]
Bucky Barnes: What the hell is this?
Helmut Zemo: Why don't we discuss your home? Not Romania. Certainly not Brooklyn, no. I mean, your real home. [Zemo removes his glasses then walks towards Bucky reading from the red book by torchlight.] . ([subtitled] Longing.)
Bucky Barnes: [Bucky shuts his eyes.] No. [Bucky's head snaps back.]
Helmut Zemo: . ([subtitled] Rusted.)
Bucky Barnes: Stop.
Helmut Zemo: . ([subtitled] Seventeen.)
Bucky Barnes: [Bucky's metal arm trembles in its restraint.] Stop. [He sneers angrily.]
Helmut Zemo: . ([subtitled] Daybreak.)
[Bucky screams, clenches his fist and rips free of his restraints.]
Helmut Zemo: . ([subtitled] Furnace.) . ([subtitled] Nine.)
[Bucky thumps the inside of the pod.]
Helmut Zemo: . ([subtitled] Benign.)
[Bucky punches harder.]
Helmut Zemo:   . ([subtitled] Homecoming.) . ([subtitled:] One.)  . ([subtitled] Freight car.)
[Bucky batteres the front of the pod with his metal fist and the glass screen flies clear. Zemo slowly rounds the pod with the book and the torch in hand. he stands before Bucky who straightens, a dark frown on his face.]
Helmut Zemo: ? ([subtitled] Soldier?)
Bucky Barnes:   . ([subtitled] Ready to comply.)
Helmut Zemo: Mission report. December 16, 1991.
[Steve and Sam arrive outside the chamber. Red emergency lights flash all around. There are many agents slumped on the floor. All of them out cold.]
Helmut Zemo: Help me. Help.
Steve Rogers: [Steve finds Zemo in a heap inside the chamber.] Get up. [he grabs Zemo and shoves him against the wall.] Who are you? What do you want?
Helmut Zemo: To see an empire fall.
[As Sam enters Bucky swings his fist which smashes through the wall as Sam ducks. Bucky grabs him by the jaw and throws him at the open pod. Steve lurches into the fight and lands a punch which Bucky barely feels. Bucky kicks and punches Steve out of the chamber. A punch from Bucky goes through the elevator door. Steve blocks the next one but the power of Bucky's fist sends Steve tumbling into the darkened elevator shaft.]
[In the chamber Sam comes around and spots Zemo looking down the elevator shaft.]
Man on PA #1: Der Ostflgel ist kompromittiert. Ich wiederhole: Der Ostflgel ist kompromittiert. (The east wing is compromised. I repeat: the east wing is compromised.)
Sam Wilson: Hey.
[Zemo bolts, Sam rises. At the bottom of the shaft Steve pushes himself off the floor.]
[In the control room.]
Everett Ross: Evac all civilians. Get me a perimeter around the building, and gunships in the air.
Natasha Romanoff: Please tell me you brought a suit.
Tony Stark: Sure did. It's a lovely Tom Ford, three-piece, two-button. I'm an active-duty non-combatant.
Sharon Carter: Follow me. [Sharon runs past Tony and Natasha.]
[Sam chases Zemo up a stair well.]
[Steve starts to climb the elevator shaft.]
[Bucky stalks through the building's ground floor. He batters two guards. With tech-glasses on Tony takes cover behind a pillar.]
Natasha Romanoff: [on radio:] We're in position.
[Tony taps a wrist-control which becomes his Iron Man-glove. He zaps Bucky with a stun-burst before Bucky can shoot a guard. Tony rushes him, firing again. Bucky ducks the blast then trades blows with Tony, firing the gun. Tony has the Iron Man-glove over the barrel, blocking the bullet. He pulls the gun barrel loose then Bucky smacks him backwards. Sharon rushes Bucky, then Natasha rushes Bucky. They both land kicks and punches, then Bucky flips Sharon head over heels. She smashes onto a table then Natasha leaps on Bucky, legs around his neck. He slams her onto another table and grabs her throat.]
Natasha Romanoff: You could at least recognize me.
[T'Challa comes from nowhere and kicks Bucky off Natasha. He fights with Bucky, landing lightning fast kicks and some punches. Bucky gets a counter punch in and T'Challa falls, but quickly recovers. Bucky hurries up some stairs. T'Challa leaps the levels and vaults a railing, landing in front of Bucky. Limber T'Challa spin-kicks and grabs Bucky's metal arm which he tries to twist then looks worried as he realizes it isn't going to work. He throws Bucky backwards and keeps hold as they both tumble down the stairs. They resume fighting on the small landing and a leg sweep sends Bucky over the railing. T'Challa leaps down after him but finds the wide reception empty. He scans around.]
[Outside staff flee the building en masse. Sam is among them and quickly spots something on the ground. He picks it up.]
Sam Wilson: Damn it. [he looks around the wide courtyard and scowls.]
[Bucky's on the rooftop helipad. He marches up to a blue chopper and pulls the lock off the door. he gets in the pilot seat. Steve rushes outside and sprints toward the rising chopper. He leaps and grabs the landing gear. Muscles bulging Steve pulls hard and the chopper struggles to gain height. Steve's feet kick for traction then he gets them flat on the helipad. The chopper drags him onto the weak looking mesh framing the helipad. Steve grabs the railing with one hand and clings to the landing gear with the other. He grits his teeth and his neck strains with the incredible effort. Bucky glowers from inside the chopper then throws the joystick left and the chopper's nose slams into the edge of the helipad. The rotor-blades are smashed to pieces and Steve ducks as the tail swings around. The chopper lies twisted on the mesh at the edge of the pad. Steve rises beside the canopy. Bucky's arm smashes through the glass and growling he grabs Steve's throat. The chopper starts to list over the edge. The tail breaks off and falls into the river below. Bucky keeps hold of Steve as the whole vehicle drops and slams into the river. The impact seems to knock Bucky out cold and he lets go of Steve. The body of the chopper sinks quickly to the riverbed along with other debris. Steve surfaces with Bucky in his arms.]
[At an airport Zemo listens to a phone message.:]
Zemo's Wife: He asked me again if you were going to be there. I said I wasn't sure. You should've seen his little face. Just try, okay? I'm going to bed. I love you.
[Frowning Zemo ends the call. A TV news report is playing nearby:]
News anchor #5: James Barnes, der mit dem Bombenanschlag auf die UN in Wien in Verbindung gebracht wird, ist heute aus der Haft entflohen. Ebenfalls vermisst werden die Avengers Captain Steve Rogers und Sam Wilson. ([subtitled:] James Barnes, the suspect in the UN Vienna bombing escaped custody today. Also missing Avenger Captain Steve Rogers and Sam Wilson.)
[Zemo eyes the TV screen. He stands in line at a departures gate. The screen above the gate reads: 'Gate 06 | Berlin Flughafen | AEM2103 | 14:10 | Moskau/Moscow']
[In a huge abandoned warehouse Bucky comes to with his metallic left arm clamped in a huge industrial vice. Steve peers through a gap at a chopper flying overhead. Sam's over by Bucky.]
Sam Wilson: Hey, Cap! [Steve goes over to join Sam by Bucky who sits with his arm in the vice. They stare at him.]
Bucky Barnes: Steve.
Steve Rogers: Which Bucky am I talking to?
Bucky Barnes: Your mom's name was Sarah...You used to wear newspapers in your shoes.
Steve Rogers: Can't read that in a museum.
Sam Wilson: Just like that, we're suppose to be cool?
Bucky Barnes: What did I do?
Steve Rogers: Enough.
Bucky Barnes: Oh, God, I knew this would happen. Everything HYDRA put inside me is still there. All he had to do was say the goddamn words.
Steve Rogers: Who was he?
Bucky Barnes: I don't know.
Steve Rogers: People are dead. The bombing, the setup. The doctor did all that just to get 10 minutes with you. I need you to do better than "I don't know."
Bucky Barnes: He wanted to know about Siberia. Where I was kept. He wanted to know exactly where.
Steve Rogers: Why would he need to know that?
Bucky Barnes: Because I'm not the only Winter Soldier.
[1991, at night Bucky rides alongside the car and somehow causes the car to crash. He circles back, pulls up and climbs off the motorbike. he's filmed on CCTV as he approaches the car's trunk. He janks it open, breaking the lock. Inside he opens a metal case which contains five clear drip bags filled with bright blue fluid.]
[Four young men and a young woman sit up in hospital beds. The blue fluid is fed intravenously into their arms. The drip bags hang on stands beside them. They're all fit and muscular. One man, Josef, flexes a huge biceps. Josef is screaming, dragged into a cell and left on a bed.]
Josef / Super Soldier #1: It hurts! [He struggles in leather bindings. A viewing slot is closed.]
[Karpov is sitting at a desk in a corridor, making notes and listening. Karpov opens the door to a lab and switches on the light. Josef is sitting on a bed. He looks up at Karpov.]
[Bucky and Josef fight each other in a barred chamber. The four others who were given the blue liquid are there. Josef kicks with enormous power, sending Bucky flying. Watching Karpov folds his arms.
Vasily Karpov:  , . ([subtitled] Good work.)
[A medic takes Josef's pulse and Josef slams him onto the floor. A soldier clubs Josef onto the back with no effect. Karpov gets behind Bucky and aims a gun.]
Vasily Karpov: ,   ! ([subtitled] Get me out of here.)
[Josef and the other four Winter Soldiers effortlessly dispatch a squad of Soldiers. Bucky escorts covering Karpov from the barred chamber, batting guards aside.]
Steve Rogers: Who were they?
Bucky Barnes: Their most elite death squad. More kills than anyone in HYDRA history. And that was before the serum.
Sam Wilson: They all turn out like you?
Bucky Barnes: Worse.
Steve Rogers: The doctor, could he control them?
Bucky Barnes: Enough.
Steve Rogers: Said he wanted to see an empire fall.
Bucky Barnes: With these guys he could do it. They speak 30 languages, can hide in plain sight, infiltrate, assassinate, destabilize, They can take a whole country down in one night. You'd never see them coming.
Sam Wilson: [Sam steps up to Steve.] This would have been a lot easier a week ago.
Steve Rogers: If we call Tony . . .
Sam Wilson: No, he won't believe us.
Steve Rogers: Even if he did . . .
Sam Wilson: Who knows if the Accords would let him help.
Steve Rogers: We're on our own.
Sam Wilson: Maybe not. I know a guy.
Secretary Ross: I don't suppose you have any idea where they are?
Tony Stark: We will. GSG-9's got the borders covered. Recon's flying 24/7. They'll get a hit. We'll handle it.
Secretary Ross: You don't get it, Stark. It's not yours to handle. It's clear you can't be objective. I'm putting Special Ops on this.
Natasha Romanoff: What happens when the shooting starts? What, do you kill Steve Rogers?
Secretary Ross: If we're provoked. Barnes would've been eliminated in Romania if it wasn't for Rogers. There are dead people who would be alive now. Feel free to check my math.
Tony Stark: All due respect, you're not going to solve this with boys in bullets, Ross. You gotta let us bring them in.
Secretary Ross: How would that end any differently from the last time?
Tony Stark: Because this time, I won't be wearing loafers and a silk shirt. 72 hours, guaranteed.
Secretary Ross: 36 hours. Barnes. Rogers. Wilson.
Tony Stark: Thank you, sir. [Tony slumps, exhaling.] My left arm is numb, is that normal?
Natasha Romanoff: [She pats him on the shoulder.] You alright?
Tony Stark: Always. [He has a massive black eye and a cut on his brow.] 36 hours, jeez.
Natasha Romanoff: We're seriously understaffed.
Tony Stark: Oh, yeah. It'd be great if we had a Hulk right about now. Any shot?
Natasha Romanoff: No. You really think he'd be on our side?
Tony Stark: No.
Natasha Romanoff: I have an idea.
Tony Stark: Me too. Where's yours?
Natasha Romanoff: Downstairs. Where's yours? [Tony smiles slightly.]
[Queens, New York. Peter Parker walks out of an elevator holding a DVD-player and with a backpack on his shoulder. He walks into an apartment where his Aunt May is sitting on the couch with Tony Stark.]
Peter Parker: Hey, May.
May Parker: Mmm. Hey. How was school today?
Peter Parker: Okay. This crazy car parked outside . . . [Peter sees Tony and his eyes widen.]
Tony Stark: Oh, Mr. Parker.
Peter Parker: Um . . . [He takes out his earphones.] What--what are you doing . . .? Hey! Uh, I'm--Im--I'm Peter.
Tony Stark: Tony.
Peter Parker: What are . . .what are you--what are you--what are you doing here?
Tony Stark: It's about time we met. You've been getting my e-mails, right?
Peter Parker: Yeah. Yeah.
Tony Stark: Right?
Peter Parker: Regarding the . . .
May Parker: You didn't tell me about the grant.
Peter Parker: About the grant.
Tony Stark: The September Foundation.
Peter Parker: Right.
Tony Stark: Yeah. Remember when you applied?
Peter Parker: Yeah.
Tony Stark: I approved, so now we're in business.
May Parker: You didn't tell me anything. What's up with that? You keeping secrets from me now?
Peter Parker: Why, I just, I just . . . I just know how much you love surprises, so I thought I would let you know . . . wh . . . anyway, what did I apply for?
Tony Stark: That's what I'm here to hash out.
Peter Parker: Okay. Hash, hash out, okay.
Tony Stark: It's so hard for me to believe that she's someone's aunt.
May Parker: Yeah, well, we come in all shapes and sizes, you know?
Tony Stark: This walnut date loaf is exceptional.
Peter Parker: Let me just stop you there.
Tony Stark: Yeah?
Peter Parker: Is this grant, like, got money involved or whatever? No?
Tony Stark: Yeah.
Peter Parker: Yeah?
Tony Stark: It's pretty well funded.
Peter Parker: Wow.
Tony Stark: Look who you're talking to. Can I have 5 minutes with him?
May Parker: Sure.
Tony Stark: [In Peter's bedroom Tony bolts the door and spits out the walnut loaf.] As walnut date loaves go, that wasn't bad. [He notices Peter's collection of old computers.] Whoa, what do we have here? Retro tech, huh? Thrift store? Salvation Army?
Peter Parker: Uh, the garbage, actually.
Tony Stark: You're a dumpster diver.
Peter Parker: Yeah, I was . . . anyway, look, um, I definitely did not apply for your grant.
Tony Stark: Ah-ah! Me first.
Peter Parker: Okay.
Tony Stark: Quick question of the rhetorical variety. [He pulls out his phone which projects a video of Peter Parker in his Spider-Man outfit.] That's you, right?
Peter Parker: Um, no. What do you. What do you mean?
Tony Stark: Yeah. Look at you go. Wow! Nice catch. 3,000 pounds, 40 miles an hour. That's not easy. You got mad skills.
Peter Parker: That's all- That's all on YouTube, though, right? I mean, that's where you found that? Because you know that's all fake. It's all done on the computer.
Tony Stark: Mm-Hmm.
Peter Parker: It's like that video. What is it?
Tony Stark: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah . . . oh, you mean like those UFOs over Phoenix?
Peter Parker: Exactly.
Tony Stark: Oh, what have we here?
Peter Parker: [Peter hides his Spider-Man suit.] Uh . . . that's a . . .
Tony Stark: So. You're the . . . Spider . . . ling. Crime-fighting Spider . . .you're Spider-Boy?
Peter Parker: [Peter folds his arms petulantly.] S . . . Spider-Man.
Tony Stark: Not in that onesie, you're not.
Peter Parker: It's not a onesie. [Tony picks up the suit.] I don't believe this. I was actually having a real good day today, you know, Mr. Stark. Didn't miss my train, this perfectly good DVD player was just sitting there and . . . Algebra test. Nailed it!
Tony Stark: Who else knows? Anybody?
Peter Parker: Nobody.
Tony Stark: Not even your . . . unusually attractive aunt?
Peter Parker: No. No, no. No, no. If she knew, she would freak out. And when she freaks out, I freak out.
Tony Stark: You know what I think is really cool? This webbing. That tensile strength is off the charts. Who manufactured that?
Peter Parker: I did.
Tony Stark: Climbing the walls, how you doing that? Adhesive gloves?
Peter Parker: It's a long story. I was uh . . .
Tony Stark: Lordy! Can you even see in these?
Peter Parker: Yes. Yes, I can! I can. I can-I can see in those. Okay? It's just that when whatever happened, happened . . . it's like my senses have been dialed to 11. There's way too much input, so . . . they just kinda help me focus.
Tony Stark: You're in dire need of an upgrade. Systemic, top to bottom. 100-point restoration. That's why I'm here. [Peter sits on his bed and looks at Tony.] Why you doing this? I gotta know. What's your MO? What gets you outta that twin bed in the morning?
Peter Parker: Because . . . [he fiddles with his fingers] because l've been me my whole life, and l've had these powers for 6 months.
Tony Stark: Mm-Hmm.
Peter Parker: I read books, I build computers . . . and--and yeah. I would love to play football. But I couldn't then so I shouldn't now.
Tony Stark: Sure, because you're different.
Peter Parker: Exactly. But I can't tell anybody that, so I'm not. When you can do the things that I can, but you don't . . . [Tony leans closer.] and then the bad things happen . . . they happen because of you.
Tony Stark: [he looks affected by Peter's words.] So you wanna look out for the little guy? You wanna do your part? Make the world a better place, all that, right?
Peter Parker: Yeah. Yeah just looking out . . . for the little guy. That's--that's what it is.
Tony Stark: [He slowly steps over to Peter whose leg is stretched out on the bed. Tony looks down at it.] I'm gonna sit here, so you move the leg. [Peter moves along. Tony sits beside him and raises his hand. He hesitantly clasps Peter's shoulder.] You got a passport?
Peter Parker: Uh, no. I don't even have a driver's license.
Tony Stark: You ever been to Germany?
Peter Parker: No.
Tony Stark: Oh, you'll love it.
Peter Parker: I can't go to Germany!
Tony Stark: Why?
Peter Parker: I got . . . homework.
Tony Stark: I'm gonna pretend you didn't say that.
Peter Parker: I'm---I'm being serious! I can't just drop out of school!
Tony Stark: Might be a little dangerous. Better tell Aunt Hottie I'm taking you on a field trip.
Peter Parker: [He webs Tony's hand to the door.] Don't tell Aunt May.
Tony Stark: Alright, Spider-Man. [They share an earnest look before Tony returns to his usual attitude.] Get me out of this.
Peter Parker: Sorry, I'll get the . . .
[Night, at Avengers' HQ. Vision floats above the floor. An explosion in the distance lights up the room for a moment. Vision and Wanda look out of the window.]
Wanda Maximoff: What is it?
Vision: Stay here, please.
[Vision goes. Suddenly Wanda compels a knife across the room. It stops dead in front of Clint's head.]
Clint Barton: Guess I shoulda knocked.
Wanda Maximoff: Oh my god! What are you doing here?
Clint Barton: Disappointing my kids. [He shoots arrows to both sides of the room.] I'm supposed to go water-skiing. Cap needs our help. Come on.
Vision: Clint! [Wanda and Clint stop.] You should not be here.
Clint Barton: [He turns around.] Really? I retire for, what, like five minutes, and it all goes to shit.
Vision: Please consider the consequences of your actions.
Clint Barton: Okay, they're considered. Okay, we gotta go. [Vision is held in a force field, crackling and sparkling between the two arrows.] It's this way.
Wanda Maximoff: I've caused enough problems.
Clint Barton: [Frowning Clint runs back from the door.] You gotta help me, Wanda. Look, you wanna mope, can go to high school. You wanna make amends, you get off your ass. Shit. [Vision breaks the force field with his mind stone. He punches Clint to the floor, Clint recovers quickly.] I knew I should've stretched. [He extends a baton and tries to hit Vision, but the blows go through him. Clint resorts to punches, then tries the baton again. It breaks. Clint tries to kick Vision, but his leg goes right through him. Vision gets Clint in a headlock.]
Vision: Clint, you can't overpower me.
Clint Barton: I know I can't. But she can.
Wanda Maximoff: Vision, that's enough. Let him go. I'm leaving.
Vision: I can't let you.
Wanda Maximoff: [She holds her hands apart, glowing with energy. Clint slips from Vision's grasp.] I'm sorry.
Vision: [He falters.] If you do this . . . they will never stop being afraid of you.
Wanda Maximoff: I can't control their fear, only my own. [She moves closer. Vision glows from within and crashes through the floor, and several floors beneath. Wanda and Clint stand over the holes in the floors.]
Clint Barton: Oh . . . come on. We got one more stop.
[Back at the Joint Counter Terrorist Centre:]
Attache: It's just a matter of time. Our satellites are running facial, bio-metric, and behavioral pattern scans.
Security Chief: [to Natasha who's standing in their way] Move, or you will be moved.
T'Challa: As entertaining as that would be . . .
Natasha Romanoff: You really think you can find him?
T'Challa: My resources are considerable.
Natasha Romanoff: Yeah, it took the world 70 years to find Barnes . . . so you could probably do that in about half the time.
T'Challa: You know where they are.
Natasha Romanoff: I know someone who does.
[Under an overpass:]
Sharon Carter: Not sure you understand the concept of a getaway car.
Steve Rogers: It's low profile.
Sharon Carter: Good, because this stuff tends to draw a crowd. [She opens the trunk of her car, revealing Steve's and Sams's gear.]
Bucky Barnes: [He sits behind Sam in the getaway car.] Can you move your seat up?
Sam Wilson: No.
Steve Rogers: I owe you again.
Sharon Carter: Keeping a list. [She glances at Bucky.] You know, he kinda tried to kill me.
Steve Rogers: Sorry. I'll put it on the list, too. They're going to come looking for you.
Sharon Carter: I know.
[They kiss.]
Steve Rogers: Thank you, Sharon.
Sharon Carter: That was . . .
Steve Rogers: Late.
Sharon Carter: Damn right. I should go.
Steve Rogers: Okay.
[On the 6th level of a parking garage at the Leipzig/Halle airport. Steve drives into the parking lot in the battered, old car. He parks by a grey van and gets out.]
Clint Barton: Cap.
Steve Rogers: You know I wouldn't have called If I had any other choice.
Clint Barton: Hey man, you're doing me a favor. Besides, I owe a debt.
Steve Rogers: Thanks for having my back.
Wanda Maximoff: It was time to get off my ass.
Steve Rogers: How about our other recruit?
Clint Barton: He's rarin' to go. Had to put a little coffee in him, but he should be good.
Scott Lang: What timezone is this?
Clint Barton: Come on. Come on.
Scott Lang: [Scott shakes Steve's hand with an amazed look.] Captain America.
Steve Rogers: Mr. Lang.
Scott Lang: It's an honor. I'm shaking your hand too long. Wow! This is awesome! Captain America. [He looks at Wanda.] I know you, too. You're great! [He turns back and feels Steve's shoulders.] Jeez. Ah, look, I wanna say, I know you know a lot of super people, so . . . thinks for thanking of me. [(sic!) To Sam.] Hey, man!
Sam Wilson: What's up, Tic Tac?
Scott Lang: Uh, good to see you. Look, what happened last time when I . . .
Sam Wilson: It was a great audition, but it'll . . . it'll never happen again.
Steve Rogers: They tell you what we're up against?
Scott Lang: Something about some . . . psycho-assassins?
Steve Rogers: We're outside the law on this one. So, if you come with us, you're a wanted man.
Scott Lang: Yeah, well, what else is new?
Bucky Barnes: We should get moving.
Clint Barton: We got a chopper lined up.
Man on PA #2: Dies ist eine Notsituation. Alle Passagiere mssen den Flughafen sofort evakuieren. (This is an emergency. All passengers must evacuate the airport immediately.)
Bucky Barnes: They're evacuating the airport.
Sam Wilson: Stark.
Scott Lang: Stark?
Steve Rogers: Suit up.
[Steve in his uniform strides through an underpass, then jogs onto a private runway, heading for a grounded chopper. An electro-disabler slams onto the chopper and Steve looks up. Iron Man and War Machine decent.]
Tony Stark: Wow, it's so weird how you run into people at the airport. Don't you think that's weird?
James Rhodes: Definitely weird.
Steve Rogers: Hear me out, Tony. That doctor, the psychiatrist, he's behind all of this.
T'Challa: [T'Challa leaps over a truck.] Captain.
Steve Rogers: Your highness.
Tony Stark: Anyway, Ross gave me 36 hours to bring you in. That was 24 hours ago. Can you help a brother out?
Steve Rogers: You're after the wrong guy.
Tony Stark: Your judgment is askew. Your old war buddy killed innocent people yesterday.
Steve Rogers: And there are five more super soldiers just like him. I can't let the doctor find them first, Tony. I can't.
Natasha Romanoff: Steve . . . you know what's about to happen. Do you really wanna punch your way out of this one?
Tony Stark: All right, I've run out of patience. Underoos! [Peter shoots a web, stealing Steve's shield and binding his hands.] Nice job, kid.
Peter Parker: Thanks. Well, I could've stuck the landing a little better. It's just the new suit Well, it's nothing, Mr. Stark. It's--it's perfect. Thank you.
Tony Stark: Yeah, we don't really need to start a conversation.
Peter Parker: Okay. Cap . . . Captain. Big fan, I'm Spider-Man.
Tony Stark: Yeah, we'll talk about it later. Just . . .
Peter Parker: Hey, everyone.
Tony Stark: . . . Good job.
Steve Rogers: You've been busy.
Tony Stark: And you've been a complete idiot. Dragging in Clint. 'Rescuing' Wanda from a place she doesn't even want to leave, a safe place. I'm trying to keep . . . I'm trying to keep you from tearing the Avengers apart.
Steve Rogers: You did that when you signed.
Tony Stark: Alright, We're done. You're gonna turn Barnes over, you're gonna come with us. NOW! Because it's us! Or a squad of J-SOC guys . . . with no compunction about being impolite. [Steve looks aside.] Come on.
Sam Wilson: [He radios Steve.] We found it. Their Quinjet's in hanger five, north runway.
Steve Rogers: [Steve holds his hands up and Clint shoots the web off.] Alright, Lang.
Peter Parker: Hey, guys, something . . .
James Rhodes: Whoa. What--what the hell was that?
Scott Lang: [He retrieves Steve's shield.] I believe this is yours, Captain America.
Tony Stark: Oh, great. Alright, there's two on the parking deck. One of them's Maximoff, I'm gonna grab her. Rhodey, you want to take Cap?
James Rhodes: Got two in the terminal, Wilson and Barnes.
T'Challa: Barnes is mine!
Peter Parker: Hey, Mr. Stark, what should I do?
Tony Stark: What we discussed. Keep your distance. Web 'em up.
Peter Parker: Okay, copy that!
T'Challa: Move, Captain. I won't ask a second time.
Scott Lang: [He faces Natasha.] Look, I really don't want to hurt you.
Natasha Romanoff: I wouldn't stress about it. [She kicks him in the groin and he miniaturizes, throwing her head over heels. She zaps him off her wrist and he slams into a nearby truck, laving a small dent.]
Bucky Barnes: [In the terminal.] What the hell is that?
Sam Wilson: Everyone's got a gimmick now.
Peter Parker: [Peter swings through the glass wall and kicks Sam backwards. Bucky throws a punch, Peter catches his fist.] You have a metal arm? That is awesome, dude! [Sam hits Peter.] You have the right to remain silent! [Mid-air Peter fends Sam off, then swings after him using his webs.]
[Iron Man shoots rockets that explode just beyond Clint and Wanda.]
[Steve fights hand to hand with T'Challa. War Machine locks on.]
James Rhodes: Sorry, Cap. This won't kill you but it ain't gonna tickle either. [He smacks Steve's shield with a mace.]
Tony Stark: [Hovering above the ground.] Wanda, I think you hurt Vision's feelings.
Wanda Maximoff: You locked me in my room.
Tony Stark: Okay. First, that's an exaggeration. Second, I did it to protect you. Hey, Clint.
Clint Barton: Hey, man.
Tony Stark: Clearly, retirement doesn't suit you. You got tired of shooting golf?
Clint Barton: Well, I played 18, I shot 18. Just can't seem to miss. [He fires an arrow which Tony deflects.]
Tony Stark: First time for everything.
Clint Barton: Made you look.
[Suddenly a car slams past Iron Man. He looks up as dozens more come crashing down. Wanda rows her glowing hands until Iron Man is buried under a pile of cars.]
FRIDAY: Multiple contusions detected.
Tony Stark: Yeah, I detected that too.
[Peter wings through the rafters in the terminal, chasing Sam who flies backwards firing shots. Peter stops on a high beam.]
Peter Parker: Oh god. [Bucky throws something at him.] Hey buddy, I think you lost this! [Peter throws it back. Sam kicks him off the beam and Peter fires a web which sends Sam crashing to the floor. Peter webs Sam's wrist to a balcony railing.] Those wings carbon fiber?
Sam Wilson: Is this stuff coming out of you?
Peter Parker: That would explain the rigidity-flexibility ratio, which, gotta say, that's awesome, man.
Sam Wilson: I don't know if you've been a fight before but there's usually not this much talking.
Peter Parker: Alright, sorry, my bad. [He swings down and Bucky jumps in the way. Bucky and Sam fall through the glass down onto the next floor and Peter webs them.] Guys, look. I'd love to keep this up but I've only got one job here today and I gotta impress Mr. Stark, so, l'm really sorry. [Redwing drags Peter through the glass wall.] Wwahhhh!
Bucky Barnes: You couldn't have done that earlier?
Sam Wilson: I hate you.
[Outside Steve kicks War Machine out of the air, then sends T'Challa reeling. War Machine's mace is broken.]
James Rhodes: Great.
Scott Lang: Hey, Cap, heads up! [He throws Steve a miniature truck.] Throw it at this. Now! [Steve throws it and the truck enlarges, tumbling towards War Machine.]
James Rhodes: Oh, come on! [The truck lands and explodes.]
Scott Lang: Oh, man. I thought it was a water truck. Uh . . . sorry. [Scott and Steve run off.]
James Rhodes: Alright. Now, I'm pissed.
Natasha Romanoff: [Tony helps her up.] Is this, part of the plan?
Tony Stark: Well, my plan was to go easy on them. You wanna switch it up?
Clint Barton: [To Wanda as he spots the Quinjet.] There's our ride.
Steve Rogers: Come on!
[Steve's team runs towards the Quinjet. A fizzing stream of energy slices across the runway and they stop. Vision hovers overhead.]
Vision: Captain Rogers. I know you believe what you're doing is right. But for the collective good you must surrender now. [Tony's team arrives.]
Sam Wilson: What do we do, Cap?
Steve Rogers: We fight.
Natasha Romanoff: This is gonna end well. [The two teams stride towards each other with grim determination etched on their faces.]
Peter Parker: They're not stopping.
Tony Stark: Neither are we. [Everyone breaks into a sprint.]
[Steve blocks a punch as Iron Man lands. Clint fires an arrow at Vision. War Machine flies after Falcon and Bucky trades blows with T'Challa. An explosive arrow hits Iron Man. Natasha throws Scott, as Peter swings through the air, struggling to evade vehicles projected by Wanda. Bucky lands punches on T'Challa, Clint and Natasha battle with batons. Clint pins her down with his bow.]
Natasha Romanoff: We're still friends, right?
Clint Barton: Depends on how hard you hit me. [She spins him with her legs. As she's about to kick his head, her foot stops and glows bright red. Wanda projects Natasha down.]
Wanda Maximoff: You were pulling your punches. [Clint nods sheepishly.]
Bucky Barnes: [Bucky and T'Challa have each other by the throat.] I didn't kill your father.
T'Challa: Then why did you run? [T'Challa pulls Bucky's hand off his neck, then spins him and fly-kicks him backwards. He sprouts claws and aims for Bucky's neck, but Wanda stops his hand, then waves her arms and sends T'Challa crashing into a passenger gangway.]
[Peter swings past, Steve snaps the web with his shield.]
Peter Parker: That thing does not obey the laws of physics at all.
Steve Rogers: Look kid. There's a lot going on here that you don't understand.
Peter Parker: Mr. Stark said you'd say that. Wow. [he fires webs which stick to Steve's shield and ankle. He pulls and Steve slides towards him. Peter kicks him backwards, then rolls clear.] He also said to go for your legs. [As Steve runs to get his shield, Peter webs his hands and pulls. Steve grits his teeth, spins and somersaults, propelling Peter through the air.]
Sam Wilson: [Evading fire from Iron Man.] Clint, can you get him off me?
Clint Barton: Buckled in?
Scott Lang: Yeah. No, I'm good. I'm good, Arrow Guy. Let's go. Let's go! [Miniaturized Scott is on the tip of Clint's arrow. As he fires it, the head splits and Iron Man shoots the shards. Scott dives between Iron Man's splayed fingers and slips inside the Iron Man Suit at the shoulder joint.]
Steve Rogers: [Steve catches a web and tugs Peter towards him, knocking him down with the shield. Peter recovers and pulls himself up on top of a gangway.] Stark tell you anything else?
Peter Parker: That you're wrong. You think you're right. That makes you dangerous. [He swings down and Steve leaps to kick him backwards onto the gangway's leg.]
Steve Rogers: Guess he had a point. [He throws his shield at the leg and the gangway falls. Peter holds it up.] You got heart, kid. Where're you from?
Peter Parker: Queens.
Steve Rogers: Brooklyn. [Steve leaves Peter holding the gangway.]
Tony Stark: [Clint fires arrows at hovering Iron Man whose arm-lasers malfunction.] Friday?
FRIDAY: We have some weapon systems offline.
Tony Stark: They what?
Scott Lang: Oh, you're gonna have to take this into the shop.
Tony Stark: Who's speaking?
Scott Lang: It's your conscience. We don't talk a lot these days.
Tony Stark: Friday?
FRIDAY: Deploying fire suppression system.
Scott Lang: Uh -oh. Oh boy. Whoa! [Inside the suit Scott sprints through narrow banks of components, chased by a rolling cloud of CO2. He's ejected from the suit.]
Bucky Barnes: [To Steve.] We gotta go. That guy's probably in Siberia by now.
Steve Rogers: We gotta draw out the flyers. I'll take Vision. You get to the jet.
Sam Wilson: No, you get to the jet! Both of you! [Being chased by War Machine.] The rest of us aren't getting out of here.
Clint Barton: As much as I hate to admit it, if we're gonna win this one, some of us might have to lose it.
Sam Wilson: This isn't the real fight, Steve.
Steve Rogers: Alright, Sam, what's the play?
Sam Wilson: We need a diversion, something big.
Scott Lang: I got something kind of big, but I can't hold it very long. On my signal, run like hell. And if I tear myself in half . . . don't come back for me.
Bucky Barnes: He's gonna tear himself in half?
Steve Rogers: You're sure about this, Scott?
Scott Lang: I do it all the time. I mean once . . . in a lab. Then I passed out. I'm the boss. I'm the boss. I'm the boss. I'm the boss. I'm the BOSS! [He leaps from mobile stairs and lands on War Machine's back as he flies past. He operates his suit's wrist, shuts his eyes and activates a remote. Scott grows into a towering Behemoth and grabs War Machine's leg.]
Peter Parker: Holy shit!
James Rhodes: Okay, tiny dude is big now. He's big now.
Steve Rogers: I guess that's the signal.
Sam Wilson: Way to go, Tic Tac!
Tony Stark: Give me back my Rhodey. [Sam flies feet first into Iron Man.]
Peter Parker: I got him! [Scott sends War Machine flying and Peter catches him with a web.]
[Scott kicks a bus towards T'Challa. Vision descends and braces himself, splitting the bus in two and protecting T'Challa from harm. T'Challa spots Steve and Bucky sprinting past. Chasing Sam Iron Man evades Scott swinging the wing of a plane at him.]
Tony Stark: Okay, anybody on our side hiding any shocking and fantastic abilities they'd like to disclose, I'm open to suggestion.
[Sam arrows towards Iron Man, firing Red Wing which cracks into Tony's helmet. Scott blocks T'Challa's path.]
Scott Lang: You wanna get to them you gotta go through me. [He sweeps his gigantic foot through the crates T'Challa's standing on, smashing them to pieces. Scott is engulfed in explosions as War Machine swoops towards him with Peter clinging to a web stuck to War Machine's back. He fires more webs and wraps them around Scott's over-sized arms.]
[Clint fires arrows at T'Challa who catches two right in front of his face. After the arrowheads explode he drops them and rises extending his claws.]
Clint Barton: We haven't met yet. [He flattens his bow and spins it around.] I'm Clint.
T'Challa: I don't care. [Wielding the bow like a staff Clint attacks T'Challa who a acrobatically ducks then counters with a high kick.]
[Giant Ant-Man punches War Machine in the air and swings a gangway towards him as he recovers. War Machine opens fire and the gangway disintegrates. Scott tries to stamp on War Machine who dives clear evading a lunge of Scott's hand. War Machine is struck by something.]
James Rhodes: Ahhh! [Wanda waves her hands flinging vehicles into War Machines path.]
Scott Lang: Get off. [Distracted by Peter Ant-Man doesn't spot Vision curling into a ball and ramming into him. Vision spots Steve and Bucky approaching the hangar as Ant-Man wavers. He simply floats through Ant-Man's chest. Something just flew in me! [Vision fires a shining beam of energy from his mind stone and the control tower collapses towards the entrance of the hangar. Wanda struggles to slow its collapse. Then War Machine descends behind her fires a sonic disruptor. Wanda holds her head and screams. The tower falls all around Steve and Bucky, but they make it into the hangar where Natasha is waiting for them.]
Natasha Romanoff: You're not gonna stop.
Steve Rogers: You know I can't.
Natasha Romanoff: I'm gonna regret this. [She stuns T'Challa who's arrived behind them.] Go. [Steve and Bucky run for the Quinjet as she keeps T'Challa at bay.]
Peter Parker: [Outside] Hey, guys, you ever see that really old movie, Empire Strikes Back?
James Rhodes: Jesus, Tony, how old is this guy?
Tony Stark: I don't know, I didn't carbon-date him. He's on the young side.
Peter Parker: [He swings towards Ant-Man.] You know that part . . . where they're on the snow planet . . . with the walking thingies? [He wraps webs around Scott's legs.]
Tony Stark: Maybe the kid's on to something.
James Rhodes: High now, Tony. Go high.
Peter Parker: [He swings around and around Ant-Man's legs as Iron Man and War Machine power towards his head, both landing blows together.] YES! Ha ha! That was awesome! [Giant Ant-Man topples. A flailing limb catching Peter and knocking him flying just before Scott slams into the ground on his back. He returns to normal size and removes the face-plate of his helmet, grimacing.]
Scott Lang: Does anyone have any orange slices?
Tony Stark: [He lands by Peter who's in a heap. Retracting the helmet Tony looks concerned.] Kid, you alright?
Peter Parker: Hey! Get off me!
Tony Stark: Same side. Guess who. Hi. It's me.
Peter Parker: Oh. Hey, man.
Tony Stark: Yeah.
Peter Parker: That was scary.
Tony Stark: Yeah. You're done. Alright?
Peter Parker: What?
Tony Stark: You did a good job. Stay down.
Peter Parker: No, I'm good. I'm fine.
Tony Stark: Stay down.
Peter Parker: No, it's good I gotta get him back!
Tony Stark: You're going home or I'll call Aunt May! You're done!
Peter Parker: Wait. Mr. Stark, wait! I'm not done, I'm not . . . [He slumps down.] Okay, I'm done. I'm done.
Natasha Romanoff: [In the partially wrecked hangar the Quinjet's engines fire and the guns blast debris from the entrance. Natasha keeps T'Challa held until the jet rises. Black Panther leaps, but can't keep hold and the Quinjet flies out of the hangar. War Machine flies after it. In the hangar:] I said I'd help you find him, not catch him. There's a difference.
Vision: [Outside Vision kneels beside Wanda and gently holds her in his arms. She pants for breath.] I'm sorry.
Wanda Maximoff: Me, too.
Vision: It's as I said. Catastrophe.
[Piloting the Quinjet, Steve looks over his shoulder and spots War Machine encroaching to the right. Steve pushes forward on the thrusters. Iron Man flies beside War Machine and Falcon follows them.]
James Rhodes: Vision, I got a bandit on my six. [Falcon fires small explosives which erupt and buffet War Machine.] Vision! You copy? Target his thrusters, turn him into a glider.
[Vision takes aim and fires his head laser. Falcon spots it coming and tucks into a tumble. The laser overshoots and slices through the core on War Machines chest plate. War Machine loses power and goes into a spinning free fall.]
Tony Stark: Rhodey! [Iron Man and Falcon dive.]
James Rhodes: Tony, I'm flying dead stick. [As he plunges the suit emits black smoke. Iron Man swoops down towards him. Rhodes' eyes start to close.]
Tony Stark: RHODES! [Mar Machine smacks into a wide, grassy field just before Iron Man lands nearby. His helmet retracts and he pulls off War Machine's face plate. Rhodes' eyes are closed and there's blood on his face.] Read vitals.
FRIDAY: Heartbeat detected. Emergency medical is on its way.
Sam Wilson: [He swoops down and lands on his feet. His wings retract.] I'm sorry. [Tony zaps Falcon backwards with a blast of energy from the palm of his suit. Vision glides to the ground just in front of Falcon. Stony faced Tony remains with his arms around War Machine.]
[Somewhere in Siberia, Zemo makes a phone call.]
German Innkeeper: Guten Morgen, Zimmerservice? (Good morning. Room service.)
Helmut Zemo: Guten Morgen Frau Leiber. Zimmer 201 hier (Good morning, Mrs. Leiber. [subtitled] This is room 201.)
German Innkeeper: Ah, Herr Mller. Speck und schwarzer Kaffee fr Sie, ja? (Ah, Mr. Mller. [subtitled] Bacon and black coffee again today?)
Helmut Zemo: Wie gut Sie mich kennen. ([subtitled] You know me so well.)
[In his room in Berlin, Germany.]
German Innkeeper: Hallo? Ihr Frhstck ist hier. Darf ich mich reinlassen? Herr Mller? Herr Mller? Oh mein Gott! ([subtitled] Hello? Your breakfast is here. May I let myself in? Mr Mller? Mr Mller? Oh God!) [She comes in and discovers the dead body of Dr. Theo Broussard in the bathtub.]
[Steve flies the Quinjet towards mountains, Bucky sits behind him.]
Bucky Barnes: What's gonna happen to your friends?
Steve Rogers: [Steve stares ahead, heavyhearted. He sighs and shakes his head.] Whatever it is I'll deal with it.
Bucky Barnes: [He looks thoughtful.] I don't know if I'm worth all this, Steve.
Steve Rogers: [He glances around at Bucky.] What you did all those years . . . it wasn't you. You didn't have a choice.
Bucky Barnes: I know. But I did it.
[At a hospital Rhodes lies inside an CT-scanner. He's in a blue gown covering his body. Tony paces up to Vision who watches Rhodes grave faced.]
Tony Stark: How did this happen?
Vision: I became distracted.
Tony Stark: I didn't think that was possible.
Vision: Neither did I. [Tony leaves Vision looking in on Rhodes. Along the corridor Tony spots an equally concerned Natasha.]
[Tony and Natasha stand on a balcony looking towards a row of trees.]
Tony Stark: The doctors say he shattered L4 through S1. Extreme laceration in the spinal cord. Probably looking at some form of paralysis.
Natasha Romanoff: Steve's not gonna stop. If you don't either, Rhodey's gonna be the best case scenario.
Tony Stark: You let them go, Nat.
Natasha Romanoff: We played this wrong.
Tony Stark: 'We'? Boy, it must be hard to shake the whole double agent thing, huh? It sticks in the DNA.
Natasha Romanoff: Are you incapable of letting go of your ego for one goddamn second?
Tony Stark: T'Challa told Ross what you did, so . . . they're coming for you.
Natasha Romanoff: I'm not the one that needs to watch their back. [She walks away.]
Tony Stark: [He activates holographic images appearing on his wrist device.] What am I looking at, Friday?
FRIDAY: Priority upload from Berlin police.
Tony Stark: Fire up the chopper.
[Tony flies over a stormy sea in the chopper. He looks surveillance images on a tablet computer.]
FRIDAY: The Task Force called for a psychiatrist as soon as Barnes was captured. The UN dispatched Dr. Theo Broussard from Geneva within the hour. He was met by this man.
Tony Stark: Did you run facial recognition yet?
FRIDAY: What do I look like?
Tony Stark: Uh, I don't know. I've been picturing a red head.
FRIDAY: You must be thinking of someone else.
Tony Stark: Must be.
FRIDAY: The fake doctor is actually Colonel Helmut Zemo, Sokovian Intelligence. [Tony projects the image.] Zemo ran Echo Skorpion, a Sokovian covert kill squad.
Tony Stark: So, what happened to the real Broussard?
FRIDAY: He was found dead in a Berlin hotel room. Where police also found a wig and facial prosthesis approximating the appearance of one James Buchanan Barnes.
Tony Stark: Son of a bitch. Get this to Ross.
FRIDAY: Yes, Boss.
[A wide and flat, snow covered landscape. A mountain looms on the horizon. A caterpillar truck stops on the windswept mountain plateau. Zemo gets out of the vehicle. Set on rocks is an entrance with huge, rusted double doors. Zemo hacks away at the wall beside the doors. he uncovers a control panel and keys in a code whilst referring to the red book. The huge, curved double doors break open a crack. Zemo pulls them open wider. He shines a flash light and pulls down the hood of his coat.
Inside is a vast, gloomy space cramped with shelves stacked with filing boxes. Zemo moves a ladder along and searches the boxes. he climbs up the ladder and removes a filing box labeled: ' 1991' (December 1991).
Zemo walks along a tunnel which opens into a cavernous chamber with a high ceiling. He carries a VHS cassette and a flash light. Standing around the chamber a five large, clear sided capsules. They glow a gold yellow inside. Frowning Zemo walks up to one of the capsules and shines his flash light inside. In the capsule, motionless in a state of suspended animation is the enhanced soldier Josef.]
[Tony flies the shopper low over the broiling sea. He operates the chopper with a touch screen computer in a wall panel.]
Guard: [on radio] This is the Raft Prison Control. You're clear for landing, Mr. Stark.
[The sea swells and surges as Raft Prison rises up from beneath. A huge, fortified, circular structure with small lights around the sides. Two semi-circular doors open up in the flat circular top. The chopper lands on a helipad and the doors close above it. Tony, who's left arm is in a sling walks up to Secretary Ross.]
Tony Stark: So? You got the files? Let's reroute the satellites, start facial scanning for this Zemo guy.
Secretary Ross: You seriously think I'm gonna listen to you after that fiasco in Leipzig? You're lucky you're not in one of these cells. [Ross looks at Tony sternly and leads on through a thick, steel security door. Soldiers stand guard in an operations room. Tony looks at a surveillance screen. it shows Wanda, sitting hunched and bedraggled in a cramped prison cell.]
[Another security door opens. Tony walks into a chamber surrounded by large, bared windows. Beyond the windows are a number of prison cells. Tony takes in his surroundings.]
Clint Barton: [clapping] The Futurist, gentlemen! The Futurist is here! He sees all! He knows what's best for you, whether your like it or not.
Tony Stark: Give me a break, Barton. I had no idea they'll put you here. Come on.
Clint Barton: [spits] Yeah, well, you knew they'd put us somewhere, Tony.
Tony Stark: Yeah, but not some super-max floating ocean pokey. You know, this place is for maniacs. This is a place for . . .
Clint Barton: Criminals? [He stands up.] Criminals, Tony. Think that's the word you're looking for. [He eyes Tony through the bars.] Right? That didn't used to mean me. Or Sam, or Wanda. But here we are.
Tony Stark: Because you broke the law.
Clint Barton: Yeah.
Tony Stark: I didn't make you.
Clint Barton: La, la, la, la, la . . .
Tony Stark: You read it, you broke it.
Clint Barton: La, la, la, la la
Tony Stark: Alright, you're all grown up, you got a wife and kids. I don't understand, why didn't you think about them before you chose the wrong side? [He walks away.]
Clint Barton: You gotta watch your back with this guy. There's a chance he's gonna break it.
Scott Lang: Hank Pym always said, you never can trust a Stark.
Tony Stark: Who are you?
Scott Lang: Come on, man.
Sam Wilson: How's Rhodes?
Tony Stark: They're flying him to Columbia Medical tomorrow. So . . . fingers cross. [Sam shakes his head.]What do you need? They feed you yet?
Sam Wilson: [He raises his eyebrows.] You're the good cop now?
Tony Stark: I'm just the guy who needs to know where Steve went.
Sam Wilson: Well, you better go get a bad cop, because you're gonna have to go Mark Fuhrman on my ass to get information out of me.
Tony Stark: Oh, I just knocked the 'A' out of their 'AV'. We got about 30 seconds before they realize it's not their equipment.
Secretary Ross: [In the operations room.] What did you do? Get it back up!
Tony Stark: [Back in the cell.] Just look. Because that is the fellow who was supposed to interrogate Barnes. [He shoes a holographic image of Doctor Broussard.] Clearly, I made a mistake. Sam, I was wrong.
Sam Wilson: That's a first.
Tony Stark: Cap is definitely off the reservation but he's about to need all the help he can get. We don't know each other very well. You don't have to
Sam Wilson: Hey, it's alright. [Tony leans closer to the window. Sam sighs and looks uneasy.] Look, I'll tell you but you have to go alone and as a friend.
Tony Stark: Easy.
[Tony walks to his chopper.]
Secretary Ross: Stark? Did he give you anything on Rogers?
Tony Stark: Nope. Told me to go to hell. I'm going back to the compound instead, but you can call me anytime. I'll put you on hold, I like to watch the line blink. [Ross stares at Tony who smiles as he gets in the chopper and the door slides shut. The chopper rises off the helipad and flies away. The doors close on the prison roof.]
[Sitting in the chopper Tony un-clips the sling holding his left arm. He cradles his arm in his hand for a moment. He slowly reaches out the injured arm and presses a button on a panel. The Iron Man Suit wraps itself around Tony, a hatch opens and he flies out of the chopper as Iron Man. He speeds through dark clouds. Close behind T'Challa is at the controls of a Quinjet.]
[Steve brings his Quinjet into land besides Zemo's caterpillar truck on the remote icy mountain top. The jet's wings fold up beside the fuselage.
On board Bucky pulls out rack of guns labeled 'Romanoff'. He takes a light machine gun.
Bucky and Steve stand together, waiting for the exit ramp to descend.]
Steve Rogers: You remember that time we had to ride back from Rockaway Beach in the back of that freezer truck?
Bucky Barnes: Was that the time we used our train money to buy hot dogs?
Steve Rogers: You blew three bucks trying to win that stuffed bear for a redhead.
Bucky Barnes: What was her name again?
Steve Rogers: Dolores. You called her Doll.
Bucky Barnes: She's gotta be a hundred years old right now.
Steve Rogers: So are we, pal. [He clamps his hand on Bucky's shoulder.]
[Now wearing his helmet Steve walks with Bucky up to the entrance set in rock. The door is still open.]
Steve Rogers: He can't have been here more than a few hours.
Bucky Barnes: Long enough to wake them up.
[Steve leads them into the cast bunker. They travel down into the depths inside a caged elevator. it stops in the bowls of the bunker, doors slide open. Steve nods to Bucky and heaves up the cage door. Bucky readies his heavy duty machine gun and they walk along a corridor, keeping close to a wall. Bucky looks into an alcove full of junk then he and Steve move on up some stairs. At the sound of a loud thud they spin around, aiming down the corridor.]
Steve Rogers: You ready?
Bucky Barnes: Yeah.
[Double doors part, forced open by Iron Man. Steve stares in surprise. Tony walks towards Steve and Bucky and retracts the suit's helmet.]
Tony Stark: You seem a little defensive.
[Bucky keeps his gun up while Steve walks to meet Tony with his shield covering his body.]
Steve Rogers: It's been a long day.
Tony Stark: At ease, Soldier. I'm not currently after you.
Steve Rogers: Then why are you here?
Tony Stark: Could be your story's not so crazy. Maybe. Ross has no idea I'm here. I'd like to keep it that way. Otherwise, I gotta arrest myself.
Steve Rogers: Well, that sounds like a lot of paperwork. [He lowers his shield.] It's good to see you, Tony.
Tony Stark: You too, Cap. [to Bucky] Hey, Manchurian Candidate, you're killing me. There's a truce here. You can drop . . . [Steve signs Bucky to lower his weapon and he does.]
[the three of them cautiously walk along a corridor. T'Challa in his Black Panther Suit is hiding around a corner, watching them.]
[With his helmet and face plate reengaged Iron Man leads Steve and Bucky towards the enormous chamber with the capsules standing in it.]
Tony Stark: I got heat signatures.
Steve Rogers: How many?
Tony Stark: Uh, one.
[As they enter the vast chamber the lights come on. Hazy, yellow mist descends within the capsules. As well as Josef, each one contains an enhanced soldier from the 1991 experiment. Steve and the others look around, bewildered.]
Helmut Zemo: [on speaker] If it's any comfort, they died in their sleep. [All of the enhanced soldiers have been shot in the head. Bucky stares at Josef's corpse.] Did you really think I wanted more of you?
Bucky Barnes: What the hell?
Helmut Zemo: I'm grateful to them, though. They brought you here. [Zemo appears in a control room. Steve hurls his shield but it flies back.] Please, Captain. The Soviets built this chamber to withstand the launch blast of UR-100 rockets.
Tony Stark: I'm betting I could beat that.
Helmut Zemo: Oh, I'm sure you could, Mr. Stark. Given time. But then you'd never know why you came.
Steve Rogers: You killed innocent people in Vienna just to bring us here? [Black Panther watches from the shadows. Steve looks at Zemo through a window.]
Helmut Zemo: I thought about nothing else for over a year. I studied you. I followed you. But now that you're standing here, I just realized . . . there's a bit of green in the blue of your eyes. How nice to find a flaw.
Steve Rogers: You're Sokovian. Is that what this is about?
Helmut Zemo: Sokovia was a failed state long before you blew it to hell. No. I'm here because I made a promise.
Steve Rogers: [He studies Zemo.] You lost someone?
Helmut Zemo: [He looks grave, clicks his tongue.] I lost everyone. And so will you. [He plays surveillance footage from December 16th 1991. Steve steps over to the screen.] An empire toppled by its enemies can rise again. But one which crumples from within? That's dead . . . forever.
Tony Stark: [He looks at the freeze frame of a secluded road and the date, December 16 1991. His eyes rove, anxiously.] I know that road. What is this?
[The video plays. That car that the Winter Soldier forced off the road crashes into a tree. Tony watches intently as the Winter Soldier rides up and gets off his motorbike. Steve watches Tony's increasing unease. The driver lies on the ground beside the car. It's Tony's father, Howard.
Howard Stark: Help my wife. Please. Help.
[The Winter Soldier walks over and hoists him up by his hair. He stares at Howard's bloody face. Howard stares back pleadingly.]
Howard Stark: Sergeant Barnes?
Maria Stark: Howard!
[Tony glares at Bucky. In the video the Winter Soldier pounds Howard hard in the face with his metal fist.]
Maria Stark: Howard!
[In grief Tony closes his eyes for a moment. On screen his father slumps dead. The Winter Soldier puts him in the driver's seat with his face against the steering wheel. Tony stares in horror. Maria's in the passenger seat with blood streaked down her face. The Winter Soldier walks around and grips her throat. Expressionless he strangles Maria. Tony watches the screen stunned. The Winter Soldier walks up and aims a gun at the surveillance camera.
Steve watches Tony anxiously. Tony lunges towards Bucky, Steve stops him.]
Steve Rogers: Tony. Tony.
Tony Stark: [Consumed with grief and tears glistening in his eyes he turns and looks at Steve.] Did you know?
Steve Rogers: I didn't know it was him.
Tony Stark: Don't bullshit me, Rogers! Did you know?
Steve Rogers: Yes.
[Tony steps back, his chin jutting upwards twitchy. Tony reengages the Iron Man helmet. He punches Steve to the floor and deflects gunfire from Bucky, disarming him. he grabs Bucky and flies across the chamber. He slams him onto the floor, then jumps on his arms. Steve's shield hits Iron Man, distracting him. Steve barges him backwards, Iron Man shoulders him to the floor and shackles his ankles. Bucky punches Iron Man who just lifts him and slams him against a machine. Iron Man raises a fist but Bucky twists it. A rocket shoots out of Iron Man's arm, a fireball explodes. Steve slices his shackles as a towering structure of pipework collapses. Tony and Bucky are thrown down a level as twisted metal falls around them, showering sparks.]
Steve Rogers: [to Bucky] Get out of here!
[As Bucky bolts Iron Man fires, but misses. Steve lands in front of him. Bucky hits a control panel and the silo-styled door overhead starts to open.]
Steve Rogers: It wasn't him, Tony. Hydra had control of his mind!
Tony Stark: Move!
Steve Rogers: It wasn't him!
[Steve grabs Iron Man's ankle in mid air and smashes it. Iron Man blocks Steve by shooting down rubble, then falteringly flies up the tower.]
FRIDAY: Left boot jet failing. Flight systems compromised.
Tony Stark: Ah crap.
[Above him Bucky leaps from platform to platform. With stuttering jets Iron Man gives chase, then kicks Bucky and takes aim, but the energy bold rebounds off Steve's shield onto himself. Iron Man drops like a stone and lands on a lower platform.]
Steve Rogers: He's not going to stop. Go.
[As Iron Man soars upwards, Steve leaps and shoots a wire which wraps around Iron Man's neck and drags him back down. He deflects Steve's shield, then tries to target Bucky.]
Tony Stark: Come on, come on.
FRIDAY: Targeting system's knackered, boss.
Tony Stark: I'm eyeballing it. [His helmet retracts and he shuts one eye, taking aim at the opening hatch. He fires and hits the giant hinge which explodes, cutting of Bucky's escape route. He flies up, blocks two swings from an iron pipe from Bucky, then grabs him around the neck from behind.] Do you even remember them?
Bucky Barnes: I remember all of them.
[Bucky pushes them both from the walkway, Steve jumps into them to deflect their fall. Bucky lands on a platform while Tony and Steve land on the concrete floor besides opening in the wall where snow drifts in from outside]
Steve Rogers: This isn't gonna change what happened.
Tony Stark: I don't care. He killed my mom.
[They trade punches and Iron Man ends up pinning Steve down. Bucky picks up Captain America's shield and leaps down to help. As the two super soldiers fist fight with Iron Man the shield changes hands between them until Tony manages to zap Steve who is thrown back into the wall. Bucky struggles to hold Iron Man at bay as he unleashes an energy beam, then he forces Iron Man against the opposite wall and grips the glowing core in the chest of the Iron Man Suit. A blast of energy knocks Bucky down, metal arm completely blown away. Tony zaps him again. Steve rushes him with his shield up and Iron Man fires right at it]
[Zemo is outside, listening to a phone message.]
Zemo's Wife: You should've seen his little face. Just try, okay? I'm going to bed. I love you.
T'Challa: [Sneaks up behind him] I almost kill the wrong man.
Helmut Zemo: Hardly an innocent one.
T'Challa: This is all you wanted? To see them rip each other apart.
Helmut Zemo: [Deletes the voice message] My father lived outside the city. I thought we would be safe there. My son was excited. He could see the Iron Man from the car window. I told my wife, "Don't worry. They are fighting in the city. We're miles from harm." When the dust cleared . . . and the screaming stopped. It took me two days until I found their bodies. My father . . . still holding my wife and son in his arms. And the Avengers? They went home. I knew I couldn't kill them. More powerful men than me have tried. But, if I could get them to kill each other . . . I'm sorry about your father. He seemed a good man. With a dutiful son.
T'Challa: Vengeance has consumed you. It's consuming them. [He blinks ruefully and retracts the claws in his gloves.] I am done letting it consume me. Justice will come soon enough.
Helmut Zemo: [Holding a gun Zemo smiles thinly.] Tell that to the dead. [He tries to shoot himself but T'Challa grabs him just as he fires.]
T'Challa: The living are not done with you yet.
[Tony and Steve are still fighting in the silo.]
FRIDAY: You can't beat him hand to hand.
Tony Stark: Analyse his fight pattern.
FRIDAY: Scanning! [Iron Man's HUD flashes red as Steve lands blow after blow.] Countermeasures ready.
Tony Stark: [He grabs Captain America's shield.] Let's kick his ass. [He flings the shield away then zaps Steve backwards, head over heels. Steve rises and Tony blocks his punches then zaps him to his knees, right in front of Bucky who's lying on his back.]
Steve Rogers: He's my friend.
Tony Stark: So was I. [He punches Steve then throws him back towards the gaps in the wall.] Stay down. Final warning.
Steve Rogers: [He struggles to his feet, his face bloody and his gate weary. He raises his fists and stares Iron Man down.] I can do this all day.
[Iron man raises his left palm ready to fire. Bucky grabs his leg and Tony spins, kicking him in the face. Steve grabs Iron Man and lifts him over his head, then throws him down, punches him and bashes his mask off with his shield before striking down hard on the suit's core.Tony looks horrified and glowers fearfully at Steve who pants for breath. Both have blood spattered across their faces. Steve looks back at Tony then shuts his eyes and slumps down. The shield remains upright, stuck upright in the center of the Iron Man Suit. When Steve struggles up again he takes hold of the shield, gripping the edge and pulling it free. He steps away from Tony who rolls painfully onto his side. Bucky lies bloodied but conscious, Steve reaches out and pulls him to his feet, holding him up as Tony looks on.]
Tony Stark: That shield doesn't belong to you. [Steve turns his back.] You don't deserve it. My father made that shield! [Steve stops, raises his chin, then drops the shield and walks away with Bucky's arm around his shoulder.]
[In a secure chamber at the Berlin UN bunker Zemo's contained in a prison pod, his ankles cuffed to his seat. Everett Ross enters the chamber.]
Everett Ross: Meals at eight and five. Toilet privileges twice a day. Raise your voice, zap. Touch the glass, zap. You step out of line, you deal with me. Please, step out of line. Hmm? [Zemo just stares.] So how does it feel? To spend all that time, all that effort . . . and, to see it fail so spectacularly?
Helmut Zemo: [He looks up to meet Everett's gaze.] Did it?
[Back at Avengers HQ, Tony is with Rhodes as he tentatively walks beside parallel bars with tech on his legs.]
Tony Stark: It's just the first pass.
James Rhodes: Yeah.
Tony Stark: Give me some feedback. Anything you can think of. Shock absorption. Lateral movement. Cup holder?
James Rhodes: You may wanna think about some AC down in . . . [He falls onto his hands.]
Tony Stark: Let's go. I'll give you a hand.
James Rhodes: No, no, don't. Don't help me. Don't help me. [He rises to his hands and knees, turns to sit on the floor beside Tony.] 138. 138 combat missions. That's how many I've flown, Tony. Every one of them could've been my last, but I flew 'em. Because the fight needed to be fought. It's the same with these Accords. I signed because it was the right thing to do. And, yeah, this sucks. This is . . . this is a bad beat. But it hasn't change my mind. I don't think. [He gives a crooked smile and takes Tony's hand.]
Tony Stark: You okay?
James Rhodes: Oh yeah.
FedEx Driver Stan Lee: [Knocks on the window with a packet in his hand.] Are you Tony "Stank"?
James Rhodes: Yes, this is--this is Tony "Stank". You're in the right place. Thank you for that! I'm never dropping that, by the way. Table for one, Mr. "Stank". Please, by the bathroom.
[Tony is alone, opens the package and finds an envelope and a phone inside.]
Steve Rogers: [letter to Stark] Tony, I'm glad you're back at the compound. I don't like the idea of you rattling around a mansion by yourself. We all need family. The Avengers are yours, maybe more so than mine. I've been on my own since I was 18. I never really fit in anywhere, even in the army. My faith's in people, I guess. Individuals. And I'm happy to say that, for the most part, they haven't let me down. Which is why I can't let them down either. Locks can be replaced, but maybe they shouldn't. I know I hurt you, Tony. I guess I thought by not telling you about your parents I was sparing you, but I can see now that I was really sparing myself, and I'm sorry. Hopefully one day you can understand. I wish we agreed on the Accords, I really do. I know you're doing what you believe in, and that's all any of us can do. That's all any of us should . . . [As Steve reads his letter off screen it's indicated that he breaks his team out of the Raft.]
FRIDAY: Priority call from Secretary Ross. There's been a breach at the Raft prison.
Tony Stark: Yeah, put him through.
Secretary Ross: Tony, we have a problem.
Tony Stark: Ah, please hold.
Secretary Ross: No. Don't . . .
Steve Rogers: [letter to Stark] So, no matter what. I promise you, if you need us, if you need me, I'll be there.
[Wakanda, medical facility.]
Steve Rogers: You sure about this?
Bucky Barnes: I can't trust my own mind. So, until they figure out how to get this stuff out of my head I think going back under is the best thing . . . for everybody. [He goes back into cryo.]
[Steve stands staring through a window, T'Challa walks towards him.]
Steve Rogers: Thank you for this.
T'Challa: Your friend and my father, they were both victims. If I can help one of them find peace
Steve Rogers: You know, If they find out he's here . . . they'll come for him.
T'Challa: Let them try.
[In Peter's room on Queens. May speaks to him from somewhere in the apartment.]
May Parker: So. Who was it? Who hit you?
Peter Parker: Some guy. So itchy, man. God. [He fiddles with a wrist band.]
May Parker: What's "some guy's" name?
Peter Parker: Uh, Steve.
May Parker: Steve? From 12-C? With the overbite?
Peter Parker: No, no, no. You don't know him, he's from Brooklyn. [Peter's wrist band emits a red beam which he hides when his aunt comes into the room.] Ouch.
May Parker: Well . . . I hope you got a few good licks in.
Peter Parker: Yeah, I got quite a few in, actually. His friend was huge. Like huge. [May gives him ice in a towel.] That's way better. Thank you.
May Parker: Okay, tough guy. [She smiles broadly then leaves the room.]
Peter Parker: Love you, May. Hey, can you shut the door? [He shines the red beam onto his bedroom ceiling and grins looking up at a glowing image of Spider-Man's mask.]
[the final screen text shows 'Spider-Man will return']
[End of Captain America: Civil War][Adrian Toomes and his coworker, Phineas Mason, are studying a child's drawing of the Avengers.]
Toomes: Things are never gonna be the same now. I mean, look at this. You got aliens. You got big green guys tearing down buildings. When I was a kid, I used to draw cowboys and Indians.
Mason: Actually, it's Native American, but whatever.
Toomes: Yeah. Tell you what, though. It ain't bad, is it?
[Toomes squints at the drawing and Mason nods.]
Mason: No. Yeah. Kid's got a future.
Toomes: Yeah, well... We'll see, I guess.
[Toomes looks up at the damaged Avengers Tower. Helicopters pass overhead. Scaffolding covers the tower's lower floors. A roving view sends us into a ruined building across the street.]
</poem>
[A clean-up crew works around a giant deceased Chitauri alien creature with pointed teeth. Alien artifacts lie among the rubble. Walking through the site, Toomes gives a worker a thumbs up. He turns to Herman Schultz, who is one of his workers.]
Toomes: No, hey! Uh-uh! You can't saw through that stuff. These alien bastards are tough. You gotta use the stuff they use.
[He picks up an alien object from the ground and uses it as a tool to break down the Chitauri chariot.]
Toomes: See?
Schultz: All right.
Toomes: All right. (to Brice) Oh, hey! Glad you could join us. Afternoon.
Brice: Yeah. My alarm didn't go off.
Toomes: Yeah, yeah, yeah, your alarm. Look, just go stack that armor plating like I asked you. This is a huge deal for us.
[Anne Marie Hoag, the director of the Department of Damage Control, walks into the salvage site with her crew.]
Anne Marie Hoag: Attention, please! In accordance with Executive Order 396B, all post-battle cleanup operations are now under our jurisdiction. Thank you for your service. We'll take it from here.
Toomes: Who the hell are you?
DODC Agent: Qualified personnel.
Toomes: Look, I have a city contract to salvage all this, okay, with the city, so-
Anne Marie Hoag: I apologize, Mr. Toomes, but all salvage operations are now under our jurisdiction. Please turn over any and all exotic materials that you've collected, or you will be prosecuted.
[The workers look puzzled. A worker slips an alien artifact that looks like a power source into his pocket unnoticed.]
Toomes: Ma'am, what am I- Please. Come here. Hey, lady, come on. Look... I bought trucks for this job. I brought in a whole new crew. These guys have a family. I have a family. I'm all in on this. I could lose my house.
Anne Marie Hoag: I'm sorry, sir. There's nothing I can do.
[Toomes is left to stare at her back as she leaves. Behind him, a Damage Control Agent speaks up.]
DODC Agent: Maybe next time, don't over extend yourself.
[Toomes looks around and grins.]
Toomes: What'd you say?
[He looks around at his crew of workers. Brice whistles.]
Toomes: Yeah, he's right. I overextended myself.
[Suddenly, he punches the agent. The agents point their guns at him.]
Worker: Don't do it.
Anne Marie Hoag: Put them down.
[The agents lower their guns.]
Anne Marie Hoag: If you have a grievance, you may take it up with my superiors.
Toomes: Your superiors. Who the hell are they?
[We see a TV screen playing the news about Tony Stark and his contract with Damage Control. Toomes watches the TV with an angry look on his face.]
News Anchor: A joint venture between Stark Industries and the federal government, the Department of Damage Control will oversee the collection and storage of alien and other exotic materials.
Schultz: So now the assholes who made this mess are being paid to clean it up.
Mason: Yeah, its all rigged.
[Mason is tinkering with the alien power source that one of the workers stole from the salvage site earlier that day.]
News Anchor: Experts estimate there are over fifteen hundred tons of exotic material scattered throughout the tri-state area.
[The glowing alien artifact is now connected to a motor with wires. The blades on the motor start to spin and the machine floats off the table. One of the workers pulls off a tarpaulin sheet covering a large piece of Chitauri artifact, revealing a dozen of glowing Chitauri energy cores.]
Worker: Hey, chief! We still have another load from yesterday. Were supposed to turn this in, right?
Brice: I aint hauling it.
Mason: Its too bad. We could have made some pretty cool stuff from all that alien junk.
[Toomes stares at the truck full of alien items and makes up his mind.]
Toomes: I tell you what, lets keep it. The worlds changing.
[Mason lifts his magnifying goggles and looks at his boss.]
Toomes: Its time we change, too.
8 YEARS LATER
[The Rolling Stones Cant You Hear Me Knocking is playing in the warehouse. Workers are moving piles of alien tech and tinkering with machines. Mason works on an elaborate rifle gun. Another worker fires a neon blast from an exotic gun. The blast shears a large item in half. Workers load piles of high tech weapons onto a van.]
[Cash pours through a money counting machine.]
[A figure wearing a flying suit with expensive metal wings soars toward the warehouse. Doors in the ceiling open and the figure drops crates of alien tech from the suits claw-like feet. The helmeted figure comes through the roof and lands on the platform. He steps out of the wing suit and faces Mason.]
Toomes: There you go, Mason.
[The helmet opens, revealing Toomes. Mason grins.]
Toomes: Business is good.
a Film by Peter Parker
[Through a small, rectangular screen, we see the scenery of New York passing by at a high velocity. We seem to be on a highway.]
Peter: (in a gravelly voice) New York. Queens. Its a rough borough, but hey, its home.
Happy: Who are you talking to?
[Camera quickly pans to reveal Happy Hogan driving in the front seat.]
Peter: (in a normal voice) No one. Just making a little video of the trip.
Happy: You know you cant show it to anyone.
Peter: Yeah, I know.
Happy: Then why are you narrating in that voice?
Peter: Uh... Because its fun.
Happy: Fun.
[Apparently, Happy thinks this whole situation is the opposite of fun. He puts on his sunglasses and solemnly looks out the windshield.]
Peter: So, uh, why do they call you Happy?
[Happy raises the limos partition. We see a reflection of Peter Parker holding up his phone and filming.]
[Peter gets out of the car to find a small private plane waiting for him.]
Happy: Come on. Im not carrying your bags. Lets go.
Peter: Hey, should I go to the bathroom before?
Happy: Theres a bathroom on it.
[Inside the plane, we see a view of the cockpit. Two seats for the pilot and the copilot are there no one is sitting in them.]
Peter: Whoa. No pilot? Thats awesome.
[Peter sits down across from Happy, directly facing him.]
Happy: Is that where youre gonna sit?
Peter: Yeah.
Happy: This is your first time on a private plane?
Peter: My first time on any plane.
[Happy moves away to sit in another seat.]
Peter: Should it...? Should it be...? Should it be making that noise?
[Later. Peter puts a finger to his lips and makes a shushing sound.]
Peter: Shh.
[Camera reveals Happy snoring. At the sound of Peters chuckle, Happy jerks awake, causing the whole frame to shake.]
[Inside Berlin Brandenburg Airport, we see German signs, Happy dragging his luggage behind him, and Peters face in quick succession.]
[Peter is sightseeing Berlin. We see Berlin streets, the Brandenburg Gate, a street performer, foreign girls, and a pretzel vendor.]
Peter: No one has actually told me why Im in Berlin or what Im doing. Something about Captain America going crazy.
[Happy and Peter enter a hotel.]
Happy: (pointing at a door) This is you.
Peter: Oh, were neighbors?
Happy: Were not roommates. Suit up.
[Peter's hotel room. Standing in front of a mirror, we see Peter wearing his homemade Spider-Man suit, consisting of a thin, baggy sweatshirt, goggles with shutters, and web-shooters.]
Peter: Okay, Peter, you got this. You got this.
Happy: What the hell are you wearing?
[Happy is staring at Peter with a horrified look. Peter tilts down the camera to reveal his feet.]
Peter: Its my suit.
Happy: Wheres the case?
Peter: What case? Thats not my...
[Happy opens a door, showing Peter another area of his suite.]
Peter: What? I thought that was a closet. This is still my room?
Happy: Go. Please.
Peter: My room is way bigger than...
Happy: There.
[A case is sitting on a coffee table.]
Peter: I found the case. I found the case. I found the case.
[He plucks up a card that says A minor upgrade -TS from the case.]
Peter: A minor upgrade?
[When Peter unbuckles a lock the case unfolds itself, revealing a high tech Spider-Man suit complete with awesome holograms.]
Peter: Whoa. Oh my God.
Happy: Put it on.
Peter: What the...? This is the coolest thing Ive ever seen-
Happy: Lets go.
Peter: But, yeah. Well, I dont understand. Is it for me?
[Camera spins to find Happy leaving the room.]
Peter: Happy, Happy, wait.
[Peter takes off the mask of his homemade Spider-Man suit with a huge, excited grin on his face.]
Peter: This is insane. Insane. Look at this thing. Look. Look at the eyes. This is the greatest day of my life.
Happy: Lets go.
[He has come to drag a hyped-up Peter out of the room.]
Peter: Okay.
Happy: Come on.
[Outside Flughafen Leipzig-Halle, We see Iron Man, War Machine, Captain America, Black Widow, and Black Panther confronting each other.]
Peter: (whispers) Okay, theres Captain America, Iron Man, Black Widow. Whoa. Whos that new guy?
Tony Stark: Underoos!
[We see Peter, now dressed in the Spider-Man suit that Tony gave him.]
Peter: Oh, thats me. I gotta go. I gotta go.
[Peter puts down the phone and proceeds to snatch Captain Americas shield with his web.]
[Later.]
Peter: Hey, everyone.
[He is holding his camera and flying through the air to find a safe spot. We see and hear explosions everywhere.]
Peter: Okay, so the craziest thing just happened, right? I just had a fight with Captain America and I stole his shield and I threw it at him-
[We hear a metallic noise. Ant-Man grows into a giant in the background and grabs War Machine by his ankle. Peter turns to see this.]
Peter: What the hell? Hes big now. I gotta go. Hang on.
[The phone is put down and for a moment, all we see are the sky and the clouds. Then we hear the battle commencing and see Peter being flung through the air.]
Peter: Whoa!
[Back in Peter's hotel room. Peter is facing the camera, now dressed in a grey NASA T-shirt. It is obvious that he is still high on adrenaline.]
Peter: It was the most amazing thing thats ever happened! So Mr. Stark was like, Hey, Underoos! and I just sort of flipped in and I stole Caps shield. I was like, Hey, whats up, everybody? And then...
[Theres a knock on his door.]
Peter: Hey, just a second! Coming!
[He backflips to the door, but before he can open it, Happy enters in a bathrobe.]
Peter: Hey.
Happy: We have thin walls here.
[Camera starts rolling. We are now inside Tony's car. A hand reaches for it and we tilt up to find Tony Stark in a suit and sunglasses ensemble.]
Tony Stark: What are you doing, a little video diary?
Peter: (embarrassed) Yeah.
Tony Stark: Its all right. Id probably do the same.
Happy: (from the drivers seat) I told him not to do it. He was filming everything.
Tony Stark: Its okay.
Happy: Im gonna wipe the chip.
Tony Stark: Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. You know what? We should actually... We should make an alibi video for your aunt anyway. You ready?
[Tony takes off his sunglasses, revealing a badly bruised face.]
Peter: Yeah, hold on.
Tony Stark: We rolling?
Peter: An alibi? Sure.
Tony Stark: Get in the frame.
Peter: Okay.
Tony Stark: Hey, May. How you doing? What are you wearing? Something skimpy, I hope.
[Peter turns to Tony with a frown on his face. Tony chuckles and pats Peters shoulder, whose face now wears an uncomfortable smile.]
Tony Stark: Peter, thats inappropriate. All right, lets start over. You can edit it.
Peter: Mm-hmm.
[Looking at Tony, Peter chuckles.]
Tony Stark: Three, two, one. Hey, May. My gosh, uh, I wanted to tell you what an incredible job your nephew did this weekend at the Stark internship retreat. Everyone was impressed.
[Tony is putting on a solemn face. Peter offers the camera a wide-eyed, tight-lipped smile, trying to look innocent. Suddenly, we hear a loud honk.]
Happy: Come on! Its a freaking merge. (to Tony) Im sorry.
Tony Stark: This is because youre not on Queens Boulevard. (to the camera) See, Happy is... is hoping to get bumped up to asset management. He was forehead of security, and before that, he was just a driver.
[Still driving, Happy gives Tony a sidelong glance.]
Happy: That was a private conversation. I dont like joking about this. It was hard for me to talk to you about that.
Tony Stark: No, seriously, was he snoring a bunch?
[Happy slams on the brakes, making the car screech to a stop.]
Happy: All right. Here we are. End of the line. Whoops.
[Tony laughs and films Peter, who looks a bit pale.]
Tony Stark: Happy, can you give us a moment?
Happy: You want me to leave the car?
Tony Stark: Why dont you grab Peters case out of the trunk.
[Peters film finally stops rolling. He slowly lowers his phone, shocked.]
Peter: I can keep the suit?
Tony Stark: Yes, we were just talking about it.
[Tony puts his sunglasses back on and clears his throat. Through the rear window, we see Happy struggling with Peters case.]
Tony Stark: Do me a favor, though. Happys kind of your point guy on this. Dont stress him out. Dont do anything stupid. Ive seen his cardiogram. All right?
Peter: (enthusiastically) Yes.
Tony Stark: Dont do anything I would do, and definitely dont do anything I wouldnt do. Theres a... Theres a little grey area in there, and thats where you operate.
Peter: Wait, does that mean that Im an Avenger?
Tony Stark: No.
[Happy knocks on the window and holds the case up.]
Happy: This it?
Tony Stark: Seventh floor.
Peter: I can take that. You dont have to take it.
Happy: Youre gonna take it?
Peter: Yeah, I can take that.
Happy: Thank you.
[Happy drops the case by the car.]
Peter: So whens, whens our next... Whens our next retreat, you know? Like...
Tony Stark: What, next mission?
Peter: Yeah, the mission. The missions.
Tony Stark: Well call you.
Peter: Do you have my numbers?
Tony Stark: No, I mean, well call you. Like, someone will call you.
Peter: Oh.
Tony Stark: All right?
Peter: From your team.
Tony Stark: Okay.
[Tony reaches for the door. Peter mistakes the gesture as a hug and brings his arms around Tony.]
Tony Stark: Its not a hug. Im just grabbing the door for you. Were not there yet.
[Peter awkwardly climbs out of the car. Almost as an afterthought, Tony calls out:]
Tony Stark: Bye.
[Tony and Happy drive off. Holding his bag and the Spider-Man suit case, Peter grins.]
Peter: Theyre gonna call me.
[He heads to the apartment entrance. There is a definite spring in his step.]
TWO MONTHS LATER
[Peter is standing in a packed subway train. He takes out his phone and types out a text.]
Hey Happy just checking in. I'm out of school at 2:45 PM
Ready for my next mission!
It's Peter BTW.
Parker
[He scrolls through numerous unanswered messages to Happy.]
[The train drops Peter off at 36th Avenue Station, which is right next to Midtown High. He walks downstairs to street level where football fields stand surrounded by fences. Peter strolls down the sidelines and approaches the main building. We see students playing all kinds of sports on the field. He climbs a flight of stairs, then quickly avoids being hit by a convertible driven by Flash Thompson, a slick-haired teenager.]
Flash: Whats up, Penis Parker?
[Students chuckle at that. Peter suppresses a sigh and moves on.]
[A school news report is playing in the hallway, Betty Brant and Jason Ionello as the news anchors.]
Betty: Rise and shine, Midtown Science and Technology.
Jason: Students, dont forget about your homecoming tickets. Do you have a date for homecoming?
Betty: Thanks, Jason, but I already have a date.
Jason: Okay.
Betty: Yeah.
[On TV, we see Jason rolling his eyes awkwardly.]
Principal Morita: Good morning.
[A teenage boy flies a drone around the crowded hallway. Peter walks by. Principal Morita grabs the drone out of the air.]
Principal Morita: Damn it. You, in my office right now.
[The drone pilot follows the principal. Other students carry elaborate science projects. Peter stops at his locker and takes off his jacket. He enters the combination and opens the locker. We see Peter from inside the locker. Suddenly, a hand pops up behind him. Its Ned Leeds holding a Palpatine Lego figure over Peters shoulder.]
Ned: (imitating Emperor Palpatine) Join me, and together... well build my new Lego Death Star.
Peter: What?
[Peter glances around and hears a cheerleader say:]
Cheerleader: So lame.
Peter: No way! Thats awesome. How many pieces?
Ned: Three thousand eight hundred and three.
Peter: Thats insane.
Ned: I know. You want to build it tonight?
Peter: No, I cant tonight. Ive got the Stark-
Ned: Mm-hmm. Stark internship.
Peter: Yeah, exactly.
[Having picked up his textbooks, Peter starts to walk down the hallway with his best friend.]
Ned: Always got that internship.
Peter: Yeah, well, hopefully, soon itll lead to a real job with them.
Ned: That would be so sweet.
Peter: Right?
Ned: Hed be all, Good job on those spreadsheets, Peter. Heres a gold coin.
[Peter gives him a look.]
Ned: I dont know how jobs work.
Peter: Thats exactly how they work.
Ned: Oh. (chuckles) Ill knock out the basic bones of the Death Star at my place. And, and then Ill come by afterwards...
[His voice fades out as Peter slows to a stop. In slow motion, we see who caught his eye- a pretty dark-haired girl talking with her friends down the hall. Her name is Liz. She brushes her hair back and their eyes meet for a fleeting moment. Peter is mesmerized. He can barely keep up with his conversation with Ned.]
Ned: ...because for the most part, the difficult thing is the base of it. The top half we can knock out in two hours, tops.
Peter: Thatd be great.
[The school bell rings.]
Girl: Im gonna be late!
[We are now in physics class.]
Ms. Warren: Okay, so how do we calculate linear acceleration between points A and B?
[She points at Flash, who is confidently holding up his hand.]
Ms. Warren: Flash.
Flash: Its the product of sine of the angle and gravity divided by the mass.
Ms. Warren: Nope.
[Another hand goes up, but Ms. Warren calls out a student who clearly is having difficulty focusing on the lecture.]
Ms. Warren: Peter. You still with us?
[Peter has been watching a video of Spider-Man on YouTube.]
Peter: Uh... Uh... Yeah, yeah.
[He closes the laptop, revealing a diagram of a simple gravity pendulum.]
Peter: Uh... Mass cancels out, so its just gravity times sine.
Ms. Warren: Right. See, Flash, being the fastest isnt always the best if you are wrong.
[The class bursts out in laughter. Flash has turned in his seat and is glaring at Peter.]
Flash: (whispers) Youre dead.
[Peter turns to glance at a clock. 11:38 a.m.]
[When Peter faces the front, we see that he is now wearing safety goggles.]
Mr. Cobbwell: Today well be talking about Danish physicist Niels Bohr, but trust me, there is nothing Bohr-ing about his discoveries regarding quantum theory.
[As Mr. Cobbwell continues on his introduction on Bohr, Peter opens his notes to a page titled Web Fluid Version 3.01. We see molecule diagrams and a list of liquids such as salicylic acid, toluene, and methanol.]
[Inside an open drawer is a beaker. Peter quickly and surreptitiously pours some orange liquid in it and stirs the concoction. It starts to increase in volume, running over the beaker walls. When Peter lifts the glass stirring rod, the compound sticks to it like spiderweb. Flustered, Peter quickly shuts the drawer and looks at the clock. Its 12:35 p.m.]
[A homecoming banner is hung over the clock on the cafeteria wall by Liz, who is standing on a ladder. Peter and Ned are sitting next to each other and watching her.]
Peter: Did Liz get a new top?
Ned: No. Weve seen that before, but never with that skirt.
[A girl passes by and says hello to Liz.]
Girl: Liz, hey.
Liz: Hi!
Girl: That looks so good!
Peter: We should probably stop staring before it gets creepy, though.
Michelle: Too late.
[Peter and Ned turn to see Michelle sitting at the other end of their table.]
Michelle: You guys are losers.
Ned: But then why do you sit with us?
Michelle: Because I dont have any friends.
[A poster hangs on the auditorium wall. It is for the Academic Decathlon nationals taking place in Washington D.C. on October 13-15. The Decathlon practice is commencing. Liz is standing at a podium, reading the quiz cards. Ned, Charles, Abe, and Cindy are seated on the stage. Bells are placed in front of them.]
Liz: Lets move to the next question. What is the heaviest naturally-occurring element?
Charles: Hydrogens the lightest. Thats not the question. Okay. Yeah.
Abe: Uranium.
[Cindy Moon, who was frantically searching the books, glares at Abe.]
Liz: That is correct. Thank you, Abraham.
Abe: (quietly pumping his fist in the air) Yes.
Liz: Please open your books to page ten.
[A few feet away, Peter is conversing with Mr. Harrington, the teacher who is in charge of the Decathlon team.]
Mr. Harrington: Peter, its nationals. Is there no way you could take one weekend off?
Peter: I cant go to Washington because if Mr. Stark needs me, then I have to make sure that Im here.
Flash: Youve never even been in the same room as Tony Stark.
[Flash speaks up from behind them, reading a book with his feet propped up in a chair.]
Cindy: Wait, whats happening?
[Sally Avril, who is lying on her stomach and studying her notes, answers her.]
Sally: Peters not going to Washington.
Cindy: No. No, no, no, no, no. No. No.
[Abe rings the bell beside her.]
Abe: Why not?
Liz: Really? Right before nationals?
Michelle: He already quit marching band and robotics lab.
[Everyone looks at Michelle, who is leaning on the wall with a book, with a suspicious look on their faces. Michelle quickly adds:]
Michelle: Im not obsessed with him. Just very observant.
Liz: Flash, youre in for Peter.
Flash: Ooh, I dont know. I gotta check my calendar first. I got a hot date with Black Widow coming up.
[Abe rings the bell.]
Abe: That is false.
Mr. Harrington: What did I tell you about using the bell for comedic purposes?
[Peter turns to see the clock: its still 1:18 p.m.]
[We see quick glimpses of Peter fidgeting as he looks at the clock. Fingers drumming the desk, foot tapping on the floor until finally, the clock hits 2:45 p.m. and the school bell rings.]
[The bell barely stops ringing before Peter reaches the front steps of the building. Looking around to check if anyones watching him, he leaps over a fence taller than himself without touching it.]
[Peter runs toward a deli and nods at a man sitting at the corner.]
Peter: Hey, whats up?
Man: Hey, man.
[Peter enters Delmar's Deli-Grocery and heads to the counter. He seems like hes quite a regular at the store.]
Peter: Whats up, Mr. Delmar?
Mr. Delmar: Hey, Mr. Parker. Number five, right?
[Peter picks up jelly in a plastic bag and puts it on the counter. It says "Best By 03.16.18."]
Peter: Yeah, um, and, uh, with pickles, and can you smush it down real flat? Thanks.
Deli Clerk: You got it, boss.
Mr. Delmar: Hows your aunt?
Peter: Yeah, shes alright.
[Mr. Delmar turns to speak to his staff in Spanish.]
Mr. Delmar: La ta de  les una italiana muy bellissima. (His aunt is a very hot Italian woman.)
Deli Clerk: Ah, s? (Oh, yeah?)
Peter: Cmo est tu hija, eh? (How is your daughter, huh?)
[The deli staff hoots behind the counter. Delmars grin fades.]
Mr. Delmar: Ten dollars.
Peter: Its five dollars.
Mr. Delmar: For that comment, ten dollars.
Peter: Hey, come on, Im joking. Im joking.
[Peter pulls out some cash from his wallet and hands it over to Delmar. Delmar takes the money with a grumpy look on his face.]
Peter: Heres five dollars.
[Peter moves toward a fat cat lying on the counter and pets him.]
Peter: Whats up, Murph? How you doing, buddy?
[When he returns to collect his food, Mr. Delmar strikes up a conversation.]
Mr. Delmar: So, hows school?
Peter: Ah, you know, its boring. Got better things to do.
Mr. Delmar: Stay in school, kid. Stay in school. Otherwise, youre gonna end up like me.
Peter: This is great.
Mr. Delmar: Best sandwiches in Queens.
[He hands Peter his sandwich.]
[Peter leaves the store and runs across the street with a bag of sandwich in his hand. He passes under an elevated train track, holding up his palm at a cab that honks at him, and runs into an alley. He takes off his shoes and throws them aside. He seems to be in a hurry.]
[From his backpack, Peter pulls out a blue and red Spider-Man suit. He knocks over a garbage can as he awkwardly takes off his pants. Peter yanks off his shirt and sweater, then steps into his suit, wearing only his boxers. Jumping, he pulls the full-body suit up over his legs. Peter fits his arms in the sleeves, then puts on the mask, which covers his entire head. The baggy suit hangs loosely over his slender frame.]
[Peter webs his backpack against a dumpster, then hits the spider emblem on his chest. The material shrinks, fitting him snugly.]
[Peter presses a button on his web-shooter, activating hologram displays, adjusts the lenses on his high tech mask, and jumps onto the roof of a building. Blizkrieg Bop by Ramones starts to play as he leaps across roofs with his sandwich bag in hand. Crouching down on a ledge, he looks down at the streets and sighs.]
Peter: Ah, finally.
[A bicycle chain is broken. The thief rides the stolen bike down a sidewalk, pushing passersby off the street. Peter swings after him, lands in front of him, and holds out one end of a strand of web.]
Peter: Hey, could you hold this for a second? Thanks.
[When the thief looks down at his hand, Peter uses his momentary distraction to glue him to the web. Peter lets go and the thief is pulled into the air. The thief still dangling above him, Peter holds up the bike and searches for its owner.]
Peter: Hey, is this anybodys bike? No?
[A man comes out of a store.]
Peter: Hey, buddy, is this your bike?
Man: I have no change.
Peter: Does anyone have a pen? Do you have a pen?
[On the handle of the bike, Peter has left a note saying: IS THIS YOUR BIKE? IF NOT, DONT STEAL IT! SPIDER-MAN.]
[Peter swings by a train station high above ground level and strikes a pose.]
Peter: Whoo! Everybody good?
[He then rides on top of a subway car, reading something on his phone.]
[Peter is slowly standing up on the edge of a building, the flag of the United States billowing in the wind behind him, when a man calls out:]
Street Vendor: Hey! Youre that spider guy on YouTube, right?
Peter: Call me Spider-Man!
Street Vendor: Okay, Spider-Man. Do a flip.
[Peter does a backflip on the roof.]
Street Vendor: Yeah!
Man: Not bad.
[One moment, Peter is swinging down from rooftops and yelling, and another moment, he is patiently giving directions to an old woman. A thin strand of web suspended between a building and an old, rusty water tank, he practices his tightrope skills, too.]
[A man tries to open a car door with a thin slab of metal. Peter sees this, jumps onto the roof of the car, then uses his web to bang the mans head on the car. The car starts to make loud beeping noises.]
Peter: Hey, buddy. Shouldnt steal cars. Its bad.
[Peter glues the mans hand to the car and jumps off.]
Car Jacker: Its my car, dumbass!
[An old woman, Marjorie, looks out from her window and starts to shout at Peter. All hell breaks loose.]
Marjorie: Hey! Shut that off!
Peter: I was just tryin to-
Car Jacker: Can you tell him its my car?
Day Sleeper: I work at nights! Come on, dude!
Old Man: Thats not your car! Thats his car.
Peter: How was I supposed to know? He was putting that thing in the window!
Resident 1: Every day with these damn alarms!
Resident 2: Shut it off!
[The neighbors continue to shout at Peter. An old, white-haired man wearing sunglasses (Stan Lee cameo) shouts at Peter, but then Marjorie notices him from the building across the street.]
Gary: Dont make me come down there, you punk!
Marjorie: Hey, Gary. How you doing?
Gary: Marjorie, how are you? Hows your mother?
[Later. Peter swings through an alley. His grip on his web slips, causing him to fall on his face.]
Peter: Ugh! Im good, Im good.
[Later. The sun is setting]
Voicemail: You have reached the voicemail box of...
Happy: Happy Hogan.
[We find Peter perching on a fire exit high above the ground and munching on his sandwich.]
Peter: Hey, Happy! Um, heres my report for tonight. I stopped a grand theft bicycle. Couldnt find the owner, so I just left a note. Um... I helped this lost, old Dominican lady. She was really nice and bought me a churro. So I just, um, feel like I could be doing more. You know? Just curious when the next real mission is gonna be. So, yeah, just call me back. Its Peter. Parker.
[Peter hangs up his phone and sighs.]
Peter: Why would I tell him about the churro?
[A warning signal blinks on his web-shooter. Web fluid low. Peter ejects the cartridge, then scrambles to catch it, standing sideways off the fire escape. He places the cartridge on his belt. And spots four men entering a closed bank.]
Robber 1: Cant wait to see this thing, guys.
Peter: Finally, something good.
[Inside Queens Community Bank, a robber wearing a Hulk mask is cutting the ATM with a high tech tool that has a glowing Chitauri energy core inside.]
Robber 1: Yo, this high tech stuff makes it too easy.
Robber 2: Told you it was worth it.
Robber 1: Okay, go, go, go.
[Another robber uses a high tech device to grab and pull off the front of the ATM. The huge chunk of metal is suspended in air. Other robbers start to bag the cash.]
Robber 3: Oh, nice.
Robber 4: We can hit, like, five more places tonight.
[Behind them, Peter silently comes through the door and awkwardly tries to strike a casual but cool-looking pose.]
Peter: (clears his throat) Whats up, guys? You forgot your PIN number?
[The robbers turn to him. Reveal that they are wearing cheap plastic masks of the Avengers. The Hulk, Captain America, Thor, and Iron man.]
Peter: Whoa! Youre the Avengers. What are you guys doing here?
[One of the robbers loads his gun but Peter uses his web to grab it and hit Iron Man and Thor with it. He then proceeds to push Hulk away. His sticky feet hold Thor and throw him into a wall.]
Peter: Thor. Hulk. Good to finally meet you guys. I thought youd be more handsome in person.
[Peter is hanging upside down from the ceiling when Iron Man starts to throw aimless punches at him.]
Peter: Iron Man. Hey, what are you doing robbing a bank? Youre a billionaire.
[Hulk comes up with a high tech weapon. Peter quickly dodges a punch from Iron Man, who loses balance and ends up punching Hulk instead. They both fall to the ground. Meanwhile, Captain America succeeds in picking up the high tech device that had been used to pull the metal chunk off the ATM and aims it at Peter. Peter jumps at him but is suspended in air for a short time. His voice is all distorted when he says:]
Peter: Hey! Oh, this feels so weird.
[He is thrown against the wall.]
Peter: Whoa, what is that thing?
[He is once more caught in the force field of the device and is thrown back and forth between the ceiling and the floor.]
Peter: Im starting... to think... youre not... the Avengers!
[With his sticky fingers, he holds onto the ground and shoots his web at a desk in the corner. He pulls on it and hits Captain America with his force field device.]
[Mr. Delmar is watching the attempted bank robbery from his deli across the street; money flying everywhere, Spider-Man jumping off walls, the Avengers trying to fight him.]
911 Operator: 911. Whats your emergency?
Mr. Delmar: Uh... Spider-Man is fighting the Avengers in a bank on 21st street.
Peter: Alright guys, lets wrap this up. Its a school night.
[Peter kicks Thor into a glass wall, making it crack. Iron Man holds up the force field device, but before he can do anything, Peter webs the device against the glass, jumps onto Iron Man, and checks his face underneath the mask.]
Peter: So, how do jerks like you get tech like this?
[Hulk fires up the device that cuts through metal.]
Peter: No. Wait, wait, wait!
[Peter quickly pulls Iron Man and himself out of the way. The plasma blast cuts through walls and hits Mr. Delmars store across the street. The deli-grocery bursts into flames.]
Peter: Mr. Delmar.
[Peter quickly runs into the decimated store.]
Peter: Hey, Mr. Delmar, you in there? Is anybody in here? Hello?
[He helps Mr. Delmar, who is wheezing and coughing but alive, out of the burning building. Murph the cat is safe in Peters arms, too. But when he turns to the bank, he finds that it is empty. The robbers have escaped.]
Peter: Oh, come on. Youve got to be-
[The cat starts to meow. Peter hands Murph to Mr. Delmar.]
Peter: Here, here.
Mr. Delmar: Good, yeah.
[Inside the Avengers Tower, Tonys belongings are being packed up. Dum-E picks up an expensive-looking china vase.]
Happy: (to Dum-E) Okay. Good. Yes. Yes- No. No, put that down. Thats worth more than you or me. (takes a call) Yeah?
[Peter is running down a rooftop.]
Peter: Happy, the craziest thing just happened to me. These guys were robbing an ATM with these high tech weapons-
Happy: Hey, take a breath, okay? I dont have time for ATM robberies...
Peter: Yeah, but-
Happy: ...or the thoughtful notes you leave behind. I have moving day to worry about. Everythings gotta be out of here by next week.
[Peter jumps onto another rooftop, then stops in his tracks.]
Peter: Wait. Wait! Youre moving? Whos moving?
Happy: Yeah, dont you watch the news? Tony sold Avengers Tower. Were relocating to a new facility upstate where, hopefully, the cell service is much worse.
Peter: But what about me?
[It is Happys turn to be confused.]
Happy: What about you?
[Peter sits down on a streetlamp.]
Peter: Well, what if Mr. Stark needs me or something, I dont know, something big goes down? Can I please just talk to Mr. Stark?
Happy: Look, just stay away from anything too dangerous. Im responsible for making sure youre responsible, okay?
[Peter leaps down into the alley he stashed his backpack in.]
Peter: I am responsible. I- Oh, crap. My backpacks gone.
[Happy is now standing inside an elevator.]
Happy: That doesnt sound responsible.
Peter: Ill call you back.
Happy: Feel free not to.
[The elevator doors slide close as Happy cuts the call.]
[Peter puts his mask back on and runs out of the alley.]
[Peter climbs up his apartment building, still clad in his Spider-Man suit and dodging windows. He slides the top of his bedroom window open and looks inside. Aunt May passes in front of his open door.]
[Peter climbs into the bedroom via his ceiling and closes the window with his foot. He pulls off his mask, throws it away, and crawls across the ceiling. Trying to make no sound, he pushes the door close and hops down to the floor. We hear a quiet click as the door latch slides into place.]
[Peter makes a turn to find Ned sitting on his bed. Shocked, mouth agape. The Lego Death Star crashes to the ground and breaks down into pieces.]
May: What was that?
Peter: Uh, its nothing. Its nothing!
Ned: Youre the Spider-Man. From YouTube.
Peter: Im not. Im not.
[Peter presses the spider emblem on his chest. The suit becomes baggy again and falls down from his body.]
Ned: You were on the ceiling.
Peter: No, I wasnt. Ned, what are you doing in my room?
Ned: May let me in. You said we were gonna finish the Death Star.
Peter: You cant just bust into my room!
[May opens the door, setting her hair free from a low bun. She waves a rag in front of her face to dissipate the smoke coming from the kitchen.]
May: The turkey meatloaf recipe is a disaster. Lets go to dinner. Thai? Ned, you want Thai?
Ned: Yes.
Peter: No. Hes got a thing.
Ned: A thing to do after.
May: Okay.
[She waves a finger at Peter, who is clad only in his boxers.]
May: Maybe put on some clothes.
[May leaves and closes the door behind her.]
Ned: Oh, she doesnt know?
Peter: Nobody knows. I mean, Mr. Stark knows because he made my suit, but thats it.
Ned: (whispers) Tony Stark made you that? Are you an Avenger?
Peter: (hesitates) Yeah, basically.
Ned: Whoa...
Peter: You cant tell anybody about this. You gotta keep it a secret.
Ned: A secret? Why?
Peter: You know what shes like. If she finds out people try and kill me every single night, shes not going to let me do this anymore. Come on, Ned, please.
Ned: Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. Ill level with you. I dont think I can keep this a secret. This is the greatest thing thats ever happened to me, Peter!
Peter: Ned, May cannot know. I cannot do that to her right now, you know? I mean, everything thats happened with her, I... Please.
Ned: Okay.
Peter: Just swear it, okay?
Ned: I swear.
Peter: Thank you.
Ned: Yeah.
[Peter walks away, running his hands through his hair.]
Peter: I cant believe this is happening right now.
Ned: Can I try the suit on?
Peter: No.
Ned: How does it work? Is it magnets? How do you shoot the strings?
Peter: Im gonna tell you about this at school tomorrow, okay?
Ned: Great. Okay, well, wait, then. How do you do this and the Stark internship?
Peter: This is the Stark internship.
Ned: Oh.
Peter: Just get out of here.
[Peter ushers Ned out, leans on the door, and facepalms.]
[Peter and may are sitting at a small table at Prachya Thai and eating dinner. May tries to make Peter talk, but he looks distracted.]
May: Whats the matter? Thought you loved larb. Its too larby? Not larby enough. How many times do I have to say larb before you talk to me? You know I larb you.
Peter: Im just stressed. The internship, and Im tired. A lot of work.
May: The Stark internship. I have to tell you, not a fan of that Tony Stark. Distracted all the time... hes got you in your head.
[A news report on the television behind May catches Peters attention.]
News Anchor: The beloved Queens institution, Delmars Sandwiches, was destroyed...
May: What does he have you doing?
News Anchor: ...in an explosion...
May: You need to use your instincts.
[She becomes quiet as she turns to listen to the news reporter.]
News Anchor: ...earlier tonight after an ATM robbery was thwarted by Queens own colorful local crime-stopper, the Spider-Man. As the Spider-Man attempted to foil their heist, a powerful blast was set off, slicing through the bodega across the street. Miraculously, no one was harmed.
[Aunt May turns back to Peter with a serious expression.]
May: If you spot something like that happening, you turn and you run the other way.
Peter: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Of course.
May: Six blocks away from us.
Peter: I... uh... I need a new backpack.
[May puts a finger to her ear, disbelief clear on her face.]
May: What?
Peter: I need a new backpack.
May: Thats five.
[A waiter brings a new dish to their table, his eyes glued on May.]
Thai Waiter: Sticky rice pudding.
May: Oh, we didnt order that.
Thai Waiter: Its on the house.
[The waiter winks, then leaves.]
May: Oh! Thanks. (to Peter) Thats nice of him.
Peter: I think he larbs you.
[At Peters joke, May points at herself with a exaggerated look of surprise.]
[The next morning, Peter is walking down the street with Ned, carrying a huge stack of thick books in his arms due to the loss of his backpack.]
Ned: You got bit by a spider? Can it bite me? Well, it probably wouldve hurt, right? You know what? Whatever. Even if it did hurt, Id let it bite me. Maybe. How much did it hurt?
Peter: The spiders dead, Ned.
[Peter cuts the conversation short, allowing no room for further discussion on the subject. Ned shrugs and looks ahead. His eyes go wide.]
Ned: Whoa.
[Ned and Peter stop short, examining Delmars Sandwiches. It is almost burnt down, the store name almost illegible. Police tape and barricades surround the shop. Various police officers and crime scene investigators are working around it.]
Ned: You were here?
[Peter warily eyes the agents standing near the scene.]
Peter: Yeah.
Ned: You couldve died.
[The teens stare at the badly damaged building. Expressions completely serious.]
Ned: Do you lay eggs?
Peter: What? No.
[Peter laughs at the absurd and anticlimactic suggestion.]
[In the middle of a chemistry lecture. A torch is boiling a dark-colored liquid on the desk. Peter and Ned are wearing safety glasses. Ned rolls over in his chair toward Peter, who is scribbling in his notebook.]
Ned: (in a low voice) Can you spit venom?
Peter: No.
Ned: Can you summon an army of spiders?
[Suppressing a sigh, Peter looks up in the guise of concentrating on the lecture and bends down again to take some notes.]
Peter: No, Ned.
History Teacher: The Sokovia Accords were put into place...
[Over Peters shoulder, we see a teacher droning on. Ned leans into frame and engages in a whispered conversation with Peter.]
Ned: How far can you shoot your webs?
Peter: Its unknown. Shut up.
History Teacher: ...to begin regulating...
Ned: If I was you, I would stand on the edge of a building and just shoot it as far as I could-
Peter: Shut up, Ned.
[Peters voice rises a little in volume. The girl sitting in front of Peter and Ned turns around and shoots them an irritated glare.]
[A small, old television is set up beside Coach Wilson, the PE teacher, who is standing with a bored expression. Captain Americas Fitness Challenge is playing on the screen. Captain America, in his full uniform, smiles pleasantly, standing in a locker room.]
Steve: Hi. Im Captain America. Whether youre in the classroom or on the battlefield...
[Midtown High students are sitting in neat rows on the bleachers, watching Captain America give a speech on screen. We close up on Peter and Ned. Behind them, Michelle is completely engrossed in a book called Of Human Bondage.]
Ned: Do you know him too?
Peter: Yeah, we met.
[Neds eyes widen in awe and his jaw goes slack.]
Steve: ...fitness can be the difference between success or failure.
Peter: I stole his shield.
[Peter boasts, feigning nonchalance. Neds jaw drops even more.]
Ned: What?
[Peter and Ned continue to watch the television with their classmates. We can see Captain over their shoulders.]
Steve: Today, my good friend, your gym teacher...
[Captain points to his right. Coach Wilson, who is apparently standing on the wrong side, waves his hand to the students.]
Steve: ...will be conducting the Captain America Fitness Challenge.
[He raises his hand in a salute. The screen transitions to Station I: Sit-ups.]
Coach Wilson: Thank you, Captain. Im pretty sure this guys a war criminal now, but whatever. I have to show these videos. Its required by the state. Lets do it.
[Coach Wilson blows his whistle.]
[Midtown High School students are engaged in various exercises. Climbing ropes, doing chin-ups, push-ups, et cetera. Michelle is lying on a mat by herself and wielding her book like a weight, still immersed in its contents. We travel between students doing sit-ups in pairs.]
Ned: Do Avengers have to pay taxes?
Peter: Shh!
Ned: What does Hulk smell like?
Peter: Shh!
Ned: I bet he smells nice.
Peter: You have to shut up.
Ned: Is Captain America cool, or is he like a mean, old grandpa?
Peter: Ned, just, shh, okay?
[We finally find Peter lying on a mat and doing sit-ups. Ned is holding his legs in place for him.]
Ned: Hey, can I be your guy in the chair?
Peter: What?
Ned: Yeah. You know how theres a guy with a headset telling the other guy where to go?
[Peters face contorts into a weird expression. He is still doing sit-ups faster than any other student.]
Ned: Like, like if youre stuck in a burning building, I could tell you where to go. Because thered be screens around me, and I could, you know, swivel around, and... Cause I could be your guy in the chair.
Peter: Ned, I dont need a guy in the chair.
Coach Wilson: Looking good, Parker.
[The teacher points at Peter as he passes the mat that Peter and Ned are working out on. Peter glances at him, then frowns and takes a huffing breath, trying to look as if the exercise is really taking a toll on him.]
[On the bleachers, Liz is sitting with a group of friends.]
Betty: Now, see, for me, it would be F Thor, marry Iron Man, and kill Hulk.
Charles: Well, what about the Spider-Man?
Betty: Its just Spider-Man.
[When the word Spider-Man reaches Peter and Neds ears, they stop and turn at the same time to see Liz and her friends.]
Liz: Did you guys see the bank security cam on YouTube? He fought off four guys.
[Peters eyes go wide.]
Betty: Oh my God, shes crushing on Spider-Man.
Charles: No way.
Liz: (shrugs) Kind of?
Betty: Ugh, gross.
[Ned and Peter exchange a look, surprised at the turn of events. Then they look back at Liz and her friends, still listening in on their conversation.]
Betty: Hes probably like, thirty.
Charles: You dont even know what he looks like. Like, what if hes, like, seriously burned?
Liz: I wouldnt care. I would still love him for the person he is on the inside.
Ned: (in a loud voice) Peter knows Spider-Man!
[Peter looks at Ned, shocked. Mouth comically agape. Everyone in the gym simultaneously drops their assignments and stares at Peter. Peter hurriedly gets up and walks to the bleachers. Ned scrambles to his feet to follow him.]
Peter: (stuttering) No, I dont. No. I... I mean...
[Flash, who was climbing up a rope, slides down to the ground.]
Ned: Theyre friends.
Flash: Yeah, like Coach Wilson and Captain America are friends.
Peter: (stuttering) Ive met him. Yeah. A couple times. But its, um... through the Stark internship. Mm-hmm.
[Peter turns to Ned, teeth set.]
Peter: Yeah, well. Im not really supposed to talk about it.
Flash: Well, thats awesome. Hey, you know what? Maybe you should invite him to Lizs party. Right?
Liz: Yeah, Im having people over tonight. Youre more than welcome to come.
Peter: Having a party?
Flash: Yeah, its gonna be dope. You should totally invite your personal friend Spider-Man.
Peter: Um...
Liz: Its okay. I know Peters way too busy for parties anyway, so...
[Liz comes to Peters rescue, saving Peter from embarrassing himself even further. Flash saunters closer and walks by Peter.]
Flash: Come on. Hell be there. Right, Parker?
[The bell buzzes. Tilting her head toward Peter in a tiny nod of farewell, Liz walks off. Peter, frustrated, throws his hands in the air and swivels to glare at Ned. He moves closer.]
Peter: What are you doing?
Ned: (in a hushed voice) Helping you out. Did you not hear her? Liz has a crush on you.
[Peter hesitates, searching for words.]
Ned: Dude, youre an Avenger. If any one of us has a chance with a senior girl, its you.
[Ned walks away. Peter stands rooted in place, considering the idea.]
[May drives Ned and Peter to Lizs house. Exciting, upbeat music pours out from the house. May slows her car and talks to the boys.]
May: House party in the suburbs. Oh, I remember these. Kind of jealous.
Ned: Itll be a night to remember.
May: (laughs) Ned, some hats wear men. You wear that hat.
Ned: Yeah, it gives me confidence.
May: Hmm.
[Peter is looking out the window, removed from the merry conversation taking place beside him.]
Peter: This is a mistake. (to May) Hey, lets just go home.
May: Oh, Peter. I know. I know its really hard trying to fit in with all the changes your bodys going through. Its flowering now.
[The absurd, out-of-place speech makes Peter chuckle.]
Peter: Uh-huh.
May: (to Ned) Hes so stressed out lately.
Ned: What helps with stress is going to a party. We should go to the party.
Peter: Yeah, lets do it. Yeah. Im gonna go. Im gonna go.
[Peter opens the car door and steps out.]
May: Peter.
[When Aunt May calls his name, Peter stops and leans in to listen to his aunt through the window. Ned gets out behind them.]
May: Have fun, okay?
Peter: (nods) I will.
May: (in a soft voice) Okay.
Ned: Bye, May!
[Ned waves with a huge grin on his face. Peter closes the door and catches up to him. They approach the house side by side.]
Ned: Dude, you have the suit, right?
[Peter pulls up his sleeve in order to offer Ned a glimpse of his Spider-Man suit under it.]
Peter: Yeah.
Ned: This is gonna change our lives.
[The front door opens, revealing Peter and Ned. They enter the crowded house party and glance around anxiously. Peter looks especially nervous. Two girls pass by in front of them, not taking any interest in their arrival.]
Girl: Annie, over here!
Annie: Hey.
[Flash is running a DJ station. Ostentatious in headphones and a yellow shirt.]
Male Voice: DJ Flash!
Ned: Okay. Were gonna have Spider-Man swing in, say you guys are tight, and then I get a fist bump or one of those half bro-hugs.
Michelle: Cant believe you guys are at this lame party.
[Michelle carelessly throws her hair back, trying to act cool. She is in the process of spreading jam on a slice of toast.]
Ned: But youre here too.
Michelle: Am I?
[The toast crunches as Michelle takes a bite out of it and walks away.]
Liz: Oh, my gosh.
[When Peter hears Lizs voice, his eyes go wide. He turns his head towards the sound. Liz walks down the hallway to Peter and Ned.]
Liz: Hey, guys. Cool hat, Ned.
Ned: Hi, Liz.
Peter: Hi, Liz.
[Peters high-pitched and squeaky voice betrays his nervousness.]
Liz: Im so happy you guys came. Theres pizza and drinks. Help yourself.
Peter: What a great party.
Liz: Thanks.
[The sound of glass breaking catches their attention.]
Liz: (sheepish) Oh, I... My parents will kill me if anythings broken. I gotta-
Peter: Yeah.
Liz: Have fun.
Ned: Bye.
Liz: Bye.
[Liz walks away.]
Ned: Dude, what are you doing? Shes here. Spider it up.
Peter: No, no, no. I cant... I cannot do this. Spider-Man is not a party trick, okay? Look, Im just gonna... be myself.
Ned: (sighs) Peter, no one wants that.
Peter: Dude.
[Peter starts to walk away, a little bit hurt by the remark.]
Flash: (into a microphone) Penis Parker, whats up?
[Flash plays a honking sound on the stereo system.]
Flash: So, wheres your pal Spider-Man? Let me guess. In Canada with your imaginary girlfriend?
[Honking noise again. Everyone around them laughs except Peter and Ned.]
Flash: Thats not Spider-Man. Thats just Ned in a red shirt.
[The crowd boos and chuckles. Peter frowns, determined.]
[A shirt drops to the floor and joins the already discarded pairs of jeans and shoes. Peter is standing on a roof. He steps over his clothes, wearing his Spider-Man suit, pulls off his T-shirt. As he mutters to himself, he tries to find a way to make his voice sound different.]
Peter: Hey, whats up? Im Spider-Man. Just thought Id swing by and say hello to my buddy Peter. Oh, whats up, Ned? Hey, wheres Peter, anyways? He must be around...
[Peter sighs, watching the party through glass walls with a discouraged look.]
Peter: God, this is stupid. What am I doing?
[Peter spots Ned looking for him. Then something catches his eyes. A bright blue explosion in the distance. He stands, staring at it with concern.]
Peter: What the hell?
[Peter runs across the roof and puts on his mask. Shooting webs through trees, he swings down the street.]
[He lands on another roof, flips off the house, then shoots a thin line of spiderweb over a vast golf course. It flies off, having nothing to attach itself to. Wide shot on Peter running across the golf course. The sprinklers are activated.]
Peter: (gasping) This sucks!
[Beside a bridge, we see a discarded car, scraps of metal ripped out from it. A blue ray shoots through the air at a great speed towards it. The car blows up in a huge explosion and makes the shooters cringe in surprise. One of them hoots and laughs as bolts of electricity burst out from the explosion.]
[Jackson Brice powers down the weapon. The fingers sticking out from the end of the gun curl in on themselves, forming a loose fist.]
Brice: Now, this is crafted from a reclaimed sub-Ultron arm straight from Sokovia. Here. You try.
[Brice hands over the weapon to Aaron Davis, who takes it.]
Aaron: Man, I wanted something low-key. Why are you trying to upsell me, man?
[Behind them, Peter silently crawls down the side of the bridge.]
Brice: Okay, okay, okay. I got what you need, all right? I got tons of great stuff here. One sec.
[Hiding, Peter watches as Brice walks up to his van and looks inside. Spider-Mans eyes narrow. The back of the van is full of machinery and weapons.]
Brice: Okay, I got, uh, black hole grenades, Chitauri railguns...
Schultz: You letting off shots in public now? Hurry up. Look, times are changing. Were the only ones selling these high tech weapons.
Peter: (whispers) Oh, this must be where the ATM robbers got their stuff.
Aaron: I need something to stick up somebody. Im not trying to shoot them back in time.
Brice: I got anti-grav climbers.
Aaron: Yo, climbers?
[Suddenly, a yodeling ringtone plays. The weapon dealers look around, alarmed.]
Brice: Okay, what the hell was that?
[The phone continues to ring. Peter takes his phone out to check caller ID. Ned is making a funny face on the screen. Schultz aims his gun at Aaron.]
Schultz: Did you set us up?
Aaron: Hey, hey, man.
[Peter flips off the wall and lands on the ground.]
Peter: Hey! Hey, come on. You gonna shoot at somebody, shoot at me.
Schultz: All right.
[Schultz turns the gun on Peter, but Peter shoots his web, disarms Schultz, and charges. Using a high tech gauntlet from his van, Brice punches Peter with a burst of energy. Peter slams into the side of the bridge and lands on the ground.]
[Schultz jumps in and starts the car. Brice, laughing triumphantly, jumps onto the back of the van as his accomplice drives off.]
Peter: What was that?
[Peter shoots his web, attaching it to the weapon dealers open van door.]
[The van drags in through a neighborhood, knocking Peter into a trash can.]
Peter: What? Ah!
[He shoots a second strand of web.]
Schultz: We gotta call him.
Brice: No, no, no, no.
[Brice readies another high tech weapon. Outside, Peter is holding on with two thin lines of web, trying to maintain balance. Brice fires another burst of energy. It breaks off the van door.]
Schultz: Did you just do it again?
Brice: Shut up.
Schultz: Im calling him.
[We see a phone buzzing on a table littered with computer chips and various tools. Mason picks it up. Glancing around, he answers it.]
Mason: Toomes phone.
[He cringes at the sound of combat coming from the other end. Toomes is working nearby, welding something, when Mason calls for him.]
Mason: Boss.
[Peter is still being dragged through the neighborhood, clinging to the back of the van.]
Peter: Oh, my butt! Unh!
[Brice powers more energy blasts at Peter, causing him to lose his grasp on one of the webs. Just as Brice powers up the weapon once more, the van meets a road bump. The whole car wobbles, making Brice accidentally fire a hole in the van. He drops the weapon and it rolls out of the vehicle. The weapons comes to a stop in someone's yard.]
[Schultz makes a sharp turn, making Peter slam into the side of a parked car. Peter then gets dragged through a line of garbage bins. He hits a solid brick pillar and drops to the ground along with a heap of bricks. Peters webs break off. Schultz checks the side mirror. Peter has recovered from the collision. He runs to get a clean shot and extends his hand. The web travels through the air and attaches itself to the remaining van door, but the door breaks off, already weakened by the rough treatment it received. Peter throws his arms up, exasperated.]
Peter: Great. Guess Im gonna have to take a shortcut.
[Peter jogs on the sidewalk, jumps over a tall metal gate, and slides over a parked car. Two men are playing ping-pong in a garage as Peter runs across the yard.]
Peter: Hey, guys. Good game. Have fun.
[The neighbors stop their game and gape after Spider-Man in disbelief. A dog runs into Peter, barking and standing on its hind legs to lick Peters face. Peter retrieves a ball with his web and throws it to the side for the dog.]
Peter: Hey, hey, buddy. Sorry, no time to play. Here, go fetch.
[Peter swings through the neighborhood, hanging on tree branches and streetlights.]
Peter: Whoo! Now, this is more like it.
[He glides into another yard. Shooting his web, he accidentally holds onto a treehouse and knocks it off the tree. That makes him lose his grasp and land hard on the roof of a shed. It collapses under his weight.]
Peter: Whoa, whoa, whoa!
[After a few awkward banging noises, Peter rips through the door, runs across the yard, and slams through a wooden fence. He leaps into the air only to land on a small toy car, which rolls forward. Losing his balance, Peter gets tangled in a soccer net and stumbles through the hedge.]
Peter: Whoa.
[He waves his hand to a man having a barbecue in his own backyard.]
Peter: Smells really good!
[Ferris Buellers Day Off is playing on the television at a pool party, the sequence closely resembling Peters travel through the neighborhood. Suddenly, Peter flies into frame.]
Peter: Great movie!
[Peter skims over the pool, splashing water over the partygoers and making them scream in surprise. He then gets tangled in fairy lights and crash lands on another yard, right beside two little girls having a sleepover in a tent. The eyes on his mask malfunction, fluttering open and close in a creepy fashion.]
Peter: Ugh... Oh, hey, guys.
Tent Kids: Aahhh!
Peter: No! No!
[The tent flips over in the girls overzealous attempt to escape.]
[Ned stealthily brings his phone up to his ear, only to reach Peters voicemail.]
Peter: (on recording) Hey, its Peter. Leave a message.
[The phone plays a beeping tone.]
Ned: (whispers) Peter, where are you? The hats not working. This is not cool.
[The van zooms down the suburban street. Smoke is billowing out from the back of it. Peter falls from above, narrowly missing the car.]
Peter: Almost got you.
[He knocks over some garbage bins in his attempt to leap up onto a roof. Running across the roofs of neighboring houses, Peter tries his best to keep the van in sight. Slates become loose and fall off the roof under Peters feet.]
Peter: (panting) Thought you got away from me, didnt you? I got you right where I want you.
[Finally catching up, Peter jumps toward the van.]
Peter: Surprise!
[Suddenly, Vulture snatches him from behind, flying in the wing suit, and soars high. Peter screams, looking down.]
Peter: What the hell?
[Peter wrestles to pull his leg free from Vultures grasp. Noticing the struggle, Vulture trains his glowing eyes at Peter menacingly and carries him even higher. Suddenly, the spider drawn on the back of Peters suit starts to beep and blink. A parachute unfolds itself from the hidden compartment. The air resistance from it makes rips Peter from Vultures grasp. During his descent, Peter gets wrapped up in the fabric.]
Peter: Aahhhh!
[Peters chaotic point of view shows him plunging toward the city.]
[Peter plunges into a lake. He struggles to free himself from the parachute as he sinks deeper and deeper.]
[Up above, the surface is calm, not betraying Peters desperate fight underwater. A figure dives into the water in an admirably fast speed. Iron Man emerges, carrying Peter. Holding him under his arms. Peters head hang slumped. The eyes on his mask blink open.]
Peter: Huh? Oh, hey.
[Peter wrings his mask. Water drips from it. He is sitting on a jungle gym. In front of him, Iron Man is floating in the air.]
Peter: And then he just, he just, like, swooped down like a monster and he picked me up and, uh, he took me up, like, a thousand feet and just dropped me. Howd you find me? Did you put a tracker in my suit or something?
Tony Stark: I put everything in your suit. Including this heater.
Peter: Whoa!
[The suit is dried instantly. Steam rises from it, surrounding Peter.]
Peter: Whew, thats better. Thanks.
[Peter shivers, his teeth chattering.]
Tony Stark: What were you thinking?
Peter: The guy with the wings is obviously the source of the weapons. I gotta take him down.
Tony Stark: Take him down now, huh? Steady, Crockett, there are people who handle this sort of thing.
Peter: The Avengers?
Tony Stark: No, no, no. This is a little below their pay grade.
Peter: Anyway, Mr. Stark, you didnt have to come all the way out here. I had that. I was fine.
Tony Stark: Oh, Im not here.
[Iron Mans helmet opens, revealing an empty space where Tonys face should have been.]
[We are in India. Tony is dressed in a white kurta and wearing a red scarf around his neck. Behind him, Indian women in saris and garlands are participating in a traditional wedding.]
Tony Stark: Thank God this place has Wi-Fi or you would be toast right now. Thank Ganesh while youre at it.
[A man brings Tony a drink. Tony makes a small toast, whispering his gratitude.]
Tony Stark: Cheers.
[Tony continues to talk through the empty suit, his helmet still open.]
Tony Stark: Look, forget the flying vulture guy, please.
Peter: Why?
Tony Stark: Why? Because I said so!
[A woman walks to him. Tony demurely bends down in order to help her put a flower garland around his neck.]
Tony Stark: Sorry, Im talking to a teenager. (to Peter) Stay close to the ground. Build up your game helping little people, like that lady that bought you the churro. Cant you just be a friendly...
[Tony takes a sip from his drink and puts it down with a clink.]
Tony Stark: ...neighborhood Spider-Man?
Peter: But Im ready for more than that now.
Tony Stark: No, you are not.
[The empty Iron Man suit closes.]
Peter: That is not what you thought when I took on Captain America.
Tony Stark: Trust me, kid. If Cap wanted to lay you out, he wouldve. Listen to me. If you come across these weapons again, call Happy.
[Peter hears a car engine revving.]
Peter: Are you driving?
[Tony gets in his car and shuts the door.]
Tony Stark: You know, its never too early to start thinking about college. I got some pull at MIT. (at his phone) End call.
[Tony drives off in his yellow Audi.]
Peter: No, I dont need to go to col- Mr. Stark-
Friday: Mr. Stark is no longer connected.
[The Iron Man suit flies off. Peter mutters grudgingly.]
Peter: Thats awesome.
[Peter approaches an empty yard, wearing his mask again.]
Peter: (mutters) Stay close to the ground? What is he talking about?
[He stops walking, spotting something. Peter enters the yard and finds a piece of Brices damaged weapon that had fallen out of the vehicle. He crouches down to tentatively flip it over with his fingertips.]
Peter: Whoa.
[Peter finds the glowing energy core. His phone rings. Peter answers a call from Ned.]
Peter: Hey, man, whats up? Im on my way back.
Ned: Actually, I was calling to say maybe you shouldnt come. Listen to this.
[Ned pulls his phone off his ear and raises it into the air.]
Flash: When I say penis, you say Parker. Penis!
Crowd: Parker!
Flash: Penis!
Crowd: Parker!
[Peter can still hear Flash and his friends chanting in the background.]
Ned: Sorry, Peter. I guess were still losers. Ill see you tomorrow.
Peter: Ill see you tomorrow in school.
[Peter hangs up and carefully lifts the weapon. Metal and wires encase the glowing core. Peter looks up, determination clear on his masked face.]
[In Toomes' warehouse, Mason is working on a small device which is glowing with a purple hue similar to the core of Peters discovery. He blows on the end of the soldering tool and picks up a glowing cube. Mason throws the cube into a refrigerator, creating a rectangular portal. He reaches through it and grabs a drink.]
Mason: Whoa, whoa.
[The room shakes, making the cube parts fall off the refrigerator and closing the small opening. Toomes lands on the platform in his vulture suit. Stepping out of the suit, he walks down the stairs, stomping angrily.]
Toomes: Idiots. Idiots.
[He throws his helmet.]
Toomes: Idiots!
[A worker looks up at Vulture, alarmed.]
Mason: Boss. Your wife keeps texting you. Something about a brake light?
[Vulture approaches Mason.]
Toomes: Whatd I tell you about looking at my phone?
Mason: Oh, sorry. You left it out. You know Im a curious person by nature.
[Toomes takes the phone.]
Mason: I finished designing that high-altitude vacuum seal.
Toomes: Huh?
Mason: In case you want to, you know, go for the big one?
Toomes: Youre still on that? I told you, no. The answers no. Forget it.
[The badly damaged van pulls into the warehouse. Vulture and Mason look at it curiously. Brice appears from the back of the van, not bothering to open the nonexistent doors which got ripped out during their fight with Spider-Man.]
Brice: Whoo!
[Smiling, Brice takes off his hand-weapon and reaches Vulture.]
Brice: I mean, that was badass.
[Annoyed, Toomes walks toward Brice.]
Toomes: How many times have I told you not to fire them out in the open?
Brice: You said, move the merchandise.
Toomes: Under the radar. Under the radar! Thats how we survive. If you bring Damage Control or the Avengers down here, were through. Youre out there wearing that goofy thing, lightning up cars, calling yourself the Shocker. Im the Shocker. I shock people. What is this, pro wrestling?
Brice: Ah, whatever, old man. Come on.
[Brice walks to a table and Vulture follows.]
Toomes: Look, look. I know you dont give a crap about anything. But I do. I built this whole place because I got people I have to look after.
Brice: (mockingly) Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
[Vulture stares at Brice, his expression cold.]
Toomes: You know what? I cant afford your bullshit. Get out of here.
Brice: What?
Toomes: Youre done. Youre off the crew.
Brice: Yeah, all right. All right. Wonder if you can afford me out there, though, right? With everything I know.
[Brice walks off.]
Toomes: Excuse me?
Brice: Um, Im just saying...
[Vulture looks at Brice, properly annoyed.]
Brice: ...maybe your wife would like to know where you really get your money from.
Toomes: You know what?
Brice: What?
Toomes: Youre right. (to Mason, in a low voice) That work?
Mason: I dont know.
[Vulture looks at Brice again.]
Toomes: I cant afford that.
[Vulture picks up and fires the high-tech weapon which Mason was working on. A blue ray zaps Brice, burning him down to ashes. Brices gauntlet clatters to the ground. The weapon powers down. Vulture looks on, a little confused. Schultz eyes the ashes.]
Schultz: Damn.
[Still confused, Vulture speaks to Mason.]
Toomes: I thought this was the antigravity gun.
Mason: What? No, thats that one.
[Mason points to another weapon. Dropping the weapon on the worktable, Vulture approaches Brices remains. He picks up the Shockers gauntlet and cleans off the ashes. He then tosses the gauntlet to Schultz.]
Toomes: Here. Now youre the Shocker. Go out there and find that weapon he lost.
Schultz: All right.
[Vulture walks off.]
[In shop class, Peter hits the weapon core casing with a hammer. The core emits purple light as it is partially freed from the metal casing.]
Peter: Oh.
[He starts to pull it apart. Ned joins him.]
Ned: Hey, thanks for bailing on me.
Peter: Yeah, well, something came up.
[Ned spots the glowing core.]
Ned: Oh, what is that?
[Peter struggles to take the machine apart.]
Peter: I dont know. Some guy tried to vaporize me with it.
Ned: Seriously?
Peter: Yeah.
Ned: Awesome.
[Peter looks at Ned at the absurd reaction.]
Ned: I mean, not awesome. Totally uncool of that guy. So scary.
[Peter gives Ned a look and continues to work at the casing.]
Peter: Well, look, I think its a power source.
Ned: Yeah, but its connected to all these microprocessors. Thats an inductive charging plate. Thats what I use to charge my toothbrush.
[Ned points at a complex-looking charging mechanism connected to various wires.]
Peter: Whoevers making these weapons is obviously combining alien tech with ours.
Ned: That is literally the coolest sentence anyone has ever said. I just want to thank you for letting me be part of your journey into this amazing-
[Peter is not listening to a word hes saying. He brings up a hammer and hits the core really hard. The core pops out from its place, glowing. Peter and Ned immediately look at the teacher. The teacher is reading a book, sitting in his chair. He does not even spare a glance at the commotion they are causing.]
Mr. Hapgood: Keep your fingers clear of the blades.
[Peter and Ned turn back and look at the core which popped out.]
Peter: I gotta figure out what this thing is and who makes it.
Ned: Well go to the lab after class and run some tests.
[We see the core glowing on the table.]
Peter: Lets do it.
[Peter and Ned share a complicated secret handshake.]
[Peter and Ned are walking down the hallway.]
Ned: First, I say we put the glowy thing in the mass spectrometer.
Peter: First, we gotta come up with a better name than glowy thingy.
Ned: Youre right.
[Schultz and Randy walk in. Peter spots them and freezes instantly.]
Peter: Crap.
[He throws himself behind a wall.]
Peter: (whispers) Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on.
[Ned looks around, then shuffles across the corridor to join Peter by a classroom window. Behind them, the chess club is peacefully playing a game. Peter peers around the corner.]
Schultz: High schools creep me out.
[Peter and Ned peer at them.]
Schultz: They got this funny smell, you know?
[Peter and Ned hide behind the wall again. They carry out a whispered conversation.]
Peter: Hey, thats one of the guys that tried to kill me.
Ned: What?
Peter: Yeah.
Ned: We gotta get out of here.
Peter: No, no, no, no, no. I gotta follow them. Maybe they can lead me to the guy that dropped me in the lake.
Ned: Someone dropped you in a lake?
Peter: Yeah, it was not good.
[Schultz and Randy enter a classroom.]
Ned: (whispers) Peter-
Peter: (whispers) No. Stay there, Ned.
[Peter raises an arm to stop Ned and sneaks away.]
Ned: (whispers) Peter.
[Ned is left standing alone. Through the window, Brian "Tiny" McKeever notices him. He knocks on the window, making Ned turn around, startled.]
Tiny: What are you doing?
Ned: (in a normal voice) Nothing.
[Down the hall, Peter is trailing the two men. Ned tries to act nonchalant.]
Tiny: Oh.
Ned: Yeah. You good?
Tiny: Chess.
[Peter sneaks down a staircase into the classroom. Schultz and Randy are rummaging through the room.]
Randy: Can you imagine what the boss would say if he knew where we were?
Schultz: Its saying there was an energy pulse right here.
[Peter slowly walks down the stairs and takes off his bag.]
Randy: Theres no sign of the weapon. And even if it was here, now its gone.
Schultz: So are we.
[Schultz looks in Peters direction. We see no one there. An upside-down chair standing on the table shakes a little. Spotting the anomaly, Schultz gets closer, putting his hand on his gun. He crosses the room and pauses by the worktable, scanning the area. As the men head out, we tilt down to reveal Peter clinging under the table. He shoots a tiny robotic spider at one of the mens shoes. It stealthily climbs up the mans leg.]
[Sitting in Peter's room, Ned holds the web-shooter. It projects a hologram model of the city. Peter hops onto the bed next to Ned.]
Ned: This is so awesome.
Peter: I know, right?
[Ned pokes it and the model becomes more defined.]
Peter: Theyre in Brooklyn.
[Later. Ned is still studying the hologram and Peter is hanging upside down, eating chips.]
Ned: Staten Island.
[Night has fallen. Ned lies on the floor while Peter works at his desk. Ned glances at the hologram.]
Ned: Leaving Jersey.
[With a shooter, Peter projects a characterized image of his mask on the wall.]
[Later. Ned now lies on the bed. The hologram model starts to beep. Startled, he sits up, wearing the Spider-Man mask. He grabs the hologram model next to him.]
Ned: They stopped.
[Peter pops into frame, hanging from the ceiling. He turns around, a little groggy, and eyes the model.]
Peter: Maryland?
Ned: Whats there?
Peter: I dont know. Evil lair?
Ned: They have a lair?
Peter: Dude. A gang with alien guns run by a guy with wings? Yeah, they have a lair.
Ned: (nods) Badass. But how are you gonna get there if its, like, 300 miles away?
[They simultaneously turn to face the Academic Decathlon poster.]
Peter: Its not too far from D.C.
[Midtown High students are waiting by a yellow bus, dressed in their yellow uniform jackets. Peter runs toward them.]
Abe: Hey, its Peter.
Peter: Guys.
Liz: Peter?
Friend: Hey, buddy.
Peter: Yeah, I was hoping maybe I could rejoin the team.
[Flash, standing in the back, walks forward to face Peter.]
Flash: No, no way. You cant just quit on us, stroll up, and be welcomed back by everyone.
[The teacher walks out of the bus.]
Mr. Harrington: Hey, welcome back, Peter. Flash, youre back to first alternate.
Flash: What?
Abe: Hes taking your place.
[Michelle appears behind them, sans uniform.]
Michelle: Excuse me, can we go already? Cause I was hoping to get in some light protesting in front of one of the embassies before dinner, so.
Mr. Harrington: Protesting is patriotic. Lets get on the bus.
[Flash shrugs off his jacket and sullenly thrusts it into Peters arms.]
[The bus is travelling through the highway. 90 miles to Baltimore, 126 miles to Washington.]
Liz: Focus up, everyone. Our next topic is the moons of Saturn.
[The students are holding bells, focusing on Lizs quiz. They ring their bells before answering.]
Cindy: The second law of thermodynamics.
Charles: Frank Sinatra.
Flash: Fort Sumter.
Abe: Flash is wrong.
Liz: Okay, guys, lets focus. Next one.
Mr. Harrington: Liz, dont overwork them.
Peter: Uh, strontium, barium, vibranium.
Liz: Very good, Peter. Glad to have you back.
Peter: Glad to be back.
[Peters phone vibrates. He takes it out to see that Happy is calling him.]
Liz: What is the current standard unit of radioactive-
Peter: Can I take this real quick? Ill only be a sec.
Liz: Yeah, fine.
[Peter answers his call, moving to the back seats. As he passes by, Michelle stares at him curiously, looking up from her book.]
Peter: Hello?
[Happy is talking on the phone in the Avengers Tower. Behind him, workers are carrying things.]
Happy: Got a blip on my screen here. You left New York?
[Decathlon practice continues in the background.]
Liz: Okay, focus up, everyone.
Peter: Tracker.
[Peter holds the phone away from his mouth and mutters.]
Peter: (in a normal voice) Uh, yeah. No, its just a school trip. Its, uh, its nothing.
[Peter sits in the back of the bus, next row to Ned.]
Peter: Look, Happy, I gotta say, you tracking me without my permission is a complete violation of my privacy.
[Ned points at the hologram model.]
Peter: (whispers) Thats different.
[Happy looks suspicious.]
Happy: Whats different?
Peter: Nothing. Look, its just the Academic Decathlon. Its no big deal.
Happy: Hey, hey. Ill decide if its no big deal.
[Peter looks annoyed. He mouths, what?]
Happy: Sounds like its no big deal, but remember, Im watching you.
[The bus approaches Washington D.C. Above the hotel entrance, we see a banner announcing the United States Academic Decathlon.]
[The Decathlon team arrives in the check-in area. We see the interior of the hotel which is filled with preparations for the Decathlon. The students and teacher look on in awe as they walk in. Liz is at their front, leading everyone.]
Liz: Everyone stick together.
Mr. Harrington: Yeah.
Charles: You kidding me? This place is huge.
Flash: Ive seen bigger.
Abe: Theres a bird in here.
Peter: (to Ned) Hey, you brought your laptop, right?
Ned: Why?
[The door to Peter and Ned's hotel room closes. The do not disturb sign is hanging on its handle. Peter and Ned unpack, shaking various belongings like wires, the purple weapon core, toothpaste, and braces out of their backpacks. Peter connects a wire to the suit. Ned is using his laptop, complicated lines of codes flashing through the screen. Peter holds a flashlight with his mouth, working on his suit.]
Ned: Peter, why are we removing the tracker from your suit?
Peter: Uh, because I gotta follow these guys to their boss before they move again and I dont really want Mr. Stark to know about it.
Ned: So youre lying to Iron Man now?
Peter: No, Im not lying. He just doesnt really get what I can do yet.
[Ned warily eyes his friend. Peter removes the tracking device from the suit.]
Peter: Ah... Gotcha.
[He takes the flashlight out of his mouth.]
Peter: All right, Happy. Enjoy tracking this lamp.
[Peter sticks the device on a lamp, then gets back to the suit. Ned is still working on the laptop.]
Ned: Theres a ton of other subsystems in here...
Peter: Hmm?
Ned: (smirks) ...but theyre all disabled by the Training Wheels Protocol.
Peter: What?
[Peter hops up next to Ned and looks at the screen. The words Training Wheels Protocol are written in red. The codes declare that the protocol is currently active and that Stark Industry Key Identifier should be entered to disable it.]
Peter: Training Wheels Protocol?
[Ned chuckles.]
Peter: Turn it off.
Ned: I dont think thats a good idea. I mean, theyre probably blocked for a reason.
Peter: Come on, man. I dont need training wheels.
[Peter steps onto his bed and jumps up and down.]
Peter: Im sick of him treating me like a kid all the time. Its not cool.
Ned: But you are a kid.
Peter: Yeah, a kid who can stop a bus with his bare hands.
Ned: Peter, I just dont think this is a great idea. I mean, what if this is illegal?
[Peter jumps down to kneel beside Ned.]
Peter: Look, please. This is my chance to prove myself. I can handle it. Ned, come on.
Ned: I really dont think this is a good idea.
Peter: (whispers) The guy in the chair.
Ned: Dont do that.
Peter: Come on.
[Ned sighs and types reluctantly. A blue flash of light briefly pulses through the suit. Peter and Ned look at it.]
[Peter, wearing the suit without the mask, zips up his sweat shirt to hide it and puts on his hood. He peeks out the door and looks around. The corridors are quiet and empty.]
Peter: Yeah, the glowy thing, its evidence. Keep it safe.
[Ned picks up the glowing core.]
Peter: All right?
Ned: Okay, okay.
[Peter activates the tracker.]
Peter: Theyre moving.
[Peter hurriedly walks out of the room.]
Ned: Be careful.
[As Peter tries to walk down the hall unnoticed, Liz approaches in a bathing suit.]
Peter: Hey, Liz.
Liz: (whispers) Perfect timing. Were gonna go swimming. Come on, come on, come on.
[She waves the other students forward.]
Peter: (whispers) What?
[The teenagers sneak by, laughing quietly.]
Sally: Hey, Peter.
Cindy: Hi.
[Flash slaps Peters butt.]
Peter: Hey!
[Peter squeals in a high tone, offended.]
Peter: I was, uh... I was gonna go study, um, in the business center.
Liz: Peter, you dont need to study. Youre, like, the smartest guy Ive ever met.
[Peter looks at Liz, bewitched.]
Liz: And besides... Um, a rebellious group activity the day before competition is good for morale.
Peter: Hmm?
Liz: Um, well, I read that in a TED Talk, so, I-I heard it in a TED Talk. And I read a coaching book.
[Liz smiles and nods.]
Peter: Wow, you really... This is really important to you.
Liz: Yeah. Its our future. Im not gonna screw it up. Besides, we raided the minibar and these candy bars were, like, eleven dollars. So get your trunks on and come on.
[Liz throws a candy bar at Peter in a smooth arc.]
Charles: Come on.
Sally: Come on.
Liz: Im coming, Im coming.
[Liz catches up with the others.]
[At an indoor swimming pool, the Decathlon teammates swim. Liz sits on a wall between the pool and a spa.]
[Wearing his suit without the mask, Peter watches Liz through a window on the roof. Liz playfully chats with her teammates. Peter sighs. Stepping back from the window, he tightens the straps on his backpack. Peter puts on the mask. A brief glow expands from the spider emblem on his chest.]
Suit Lady: Good evening, Peter.
Peter: Hello? Hello?
Suit Lady: Congratulations on completing the rigorous Training Wheels Protocol and gaining access to your suits full capabilities.
[We see Peters view from inside the spider suit, quickly changing to different view modes.]
Peter: Ah, thank you.
Suit Lady: So where would you like to take me tonight?
Peter: (stuttering) S, I, I, put a tracker on someone. Hes a bad guy.
Suit Lady: Tracker located.
[We see the spider suit tracking down the path that leads to the guy Peter is after.]
Suit Lady: Plotting course to intercept target.
Peter: Okay, well, as long as I make it back in time for Decathlon, its fine.
[Peter swings from a web and lands on a truck. As the truck runs past, we see a banner that says United States Academic Decathlon.]
[Peter rides on a different truck, raging down the road. We see Peter in his spider suit crouching on top of the truck, with the dark night sky in the background.]
Suit Lady: One hundred meters from destination and closing.
[The truck roars past a patch of grass.]
Suit Lady: Jump now.
[Peter leaps off the truck and rolls down a grassy bank. He runs across the bank through the tall grass, approaching an abandoned gas station.]
Suit Lady: Detecting three individuals.
[We see Peter observing the gas station from behind his back. The station is dark, with a couple of trucks in its driveway. He stops and crouches to observe the gas station.]
Peter: (whispers) Why is their secret lair in a gas station? Thats so lame.
[Peter jumps, and climbs on top of the empty gas price sign.]
Peter: Hey, suit lady, what are they doing?
Suit Lady: Do you want to hear what theyre saying?
Peter: I can hear what theyre saying? Uh, yeah.
Suit Lady: Activating Enhanced Reconnaissance Mode.
[The spider suit display closes in on the van and shows Peter the heat signals emitted from the men inside. There are three people in the van who are quietly speaking.]
Mason: I got the gauntlet from the Lagos cleanup. The rest is all my design.
Peter: Whoa, thats so cool.
Randy: Cant believe theyre still cleaning up that Triskelion mess.
Schultz: I love it. They keep making messes, we keep getting rich.
Mason: Target inbound.
Peter: Whoa, theyre in the middle of a heist. I could catch them all red-handed. This is awesome. Okay, Im gonna get a little closer so I can see whats happening.
Suit Lady: Would you like me to engage Enhanced Combat Mode?
Peter: Uh, Enhanced Combat Mode? Yeah.
Suit Lady: Activating Instant Kill.
[The eyes of Peters spider suit turn into evil-looking tiny red dots.]
Peter: No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I dont want to kill anybody!
Suit Lady: Deactivating Instant Kill.
[The eyes switch back to their normal width and color. Peter jumps off the sign and falls on his face on the hard asphalt ground. Peter grunts.]
Schultz: Did you hear that?
Peter: What the hell just happened? What was that?
Suit Lady: You jumped off the sign and landed on your face.
[He fires web pellets from his shooter which land on the gas station sign.]
Peter: Suit lady, whats wrong with my web-shooters?
[Peter runs to hide behind a sign.]
Suit Lady: Rapid-fire is the default for Enhanced Combat Mode.
Peter: Why would I need rapid-fire?
Suit Lady: Would you like to see more options?
[We see Peters hands from his spider suit point of view. All kinds of webs are shown from which he can choose.]
Suit Lady: You have 576 possible web-shooter combinations.
Peter: Whoa, Mr. Stark really overdid it.
[Inside the car:]
Schultz: You two wait right here.
Mason: Wait. Youre gonna want to turn on the dampers, though, or that thing will shatter your arm.
Schultz: All right. Wheres the dampers?
[Peter is still looking down at all the options for his webs displayed over his hands.]
Peter: That one.
Suit Lady: Great choice.
[One of the options turn red.]
Suit Lady: Would you like me to set this as your new default?
[Peter shoots an electrified web at a neon sign, making it blink on and off.]
Peter: No, no, no.
[Through the window, we see Peter struggling with his electrified webs. He keeps shooting, and the neon sign keeps flashing. The men in the car are oblivious.]
Mason: Push that in.
Schultz: Right here?
Mason: No, no, the other-
Schultz: This one right here?
Mason: Yeah, push. [Peter runs behind the gas station, away from the truck, and leaps on some trucks to reach the roof of the building.]
Peter: What was that?
Suit Lady: Taser webs.
Peter: Taser webs? I dont want taser webs.
Suit Lady: You seem to be very unfamiliar with your web-shooter settings. Would you like to run a refresher course?
[Peter sits on the roof to get a better look at the men.]
Peter: No, just... You choose.
Suit Lady: Sure thing.
[Inside the DODC convoy truck:]
DODC Central: Six-Alpha-Niner. Are you running on time?
DODC Driver: Copy, Central. Six-Alpha-Niner on schedule.
[Schultz, Vultures bald henchman, peers through binoculars. Three trucks are approaching the gas station.]
Schultz: I have visual.
Mason: Green light, green light.
[Peter spots Vulture flying overhead in his wing suit.]
Peter: Oh, thats him.
[Vulture soars over a convoy of transport trucks. The suits eyes glow green in the dark.]
Vulture: Okay, I got eyes on the convoy. Pulling in behind the caboose.
Mason: Deploy anchors.
[Vulture fires cables onto the roof of the last truck. He drops a cube onto the trailer, which separates into four pieces. Arranged in a rectangle, they create a glowing portal through the roof.]
Vulture: Dropping down.
[Vulture detaches from his suit and falls through the portal, but the truck driver seems unaware of whats happening.]
[Inside the van, Mason speaks into his walkie-talkie, surrounded by wires and screens.]
Mason: No outgoing distress signals. Youre all clear.
[We see Vultures green-filtered view of the inside of the trailer. Cage-like boxes contain exotic items.]
Vulture: Hey. Looks like they got some good stuff here.
[He rips off the door from a cage full of tech. Peter climbs on top of the trailer and touches the portal. His fingers go through.]
Peter: Whoa, cool. Its some kind of matter phase shifter.
[Peter crawls down the ceiling as Vulture rises into view. Vulture kneels and zips a duffel bag.]
Vulture: Alright, coming up.
[Vulture jumps through the portal and onto the roof of the trailer. Peter shoots a web at Vultures bag, pulling it away.]
Peter: Hey, Big Bird! This doesnt belong to you!
[Vultures green eyes glare intimidatingly in Peters direction.]
Peter: Oh, god.
[Vulture gets into his wing suit and soars toward Peter. Peter jumps over him and fires long, weak webs past Vulture.]
Peter: Suit lady, what was that?
Suit Lady: You told me to choose.
[Vulture attacks Peter and Peter tries to balance himself on the edge of the trailer.]
Peter: What? No, just set everything back to normal.
[Peter grabs Vultures duffel bag, and starts to tug.]
Suit Lady: Activating all systems.
[Peter rips the bag out of Vultures talons. He falls through the portal back into the truck. The portal cube is thrown off position by Peters movement. He immediately jumps up to get out but slams his head on the now solid roof. Peter loses consciousness. Cut to black.]
[Time seems to have passed, and Peter lies motionless on the floor of the trailer. The truck shakes to a stop, waking Peter up.]
Peter: Oh, my head.
Suit Lady: You appear to have a mild concussion.
[With a headache, Peter stands up with a hand to his head.]
Peter: Hey, so where am I right now?
[Peter looks around, but cannot figure out where he is.]
Suit Lady: Im not sure. The container walls are hindering my sensors.
Peter: Wait a minute. They must have hijacked the truck and taken me to their evil lair. Okay, suit lady. Were gonna have to fight our way out of this one.
[Peter prepares himself to burst through the trucks metal doors.]
Peter: Three, two, one!
[Peter smashes through the trailer doors, and finds himself in a huge warehouse full of containers. He looks around, on guard.]
Peter: What is this place? Suit lady, where am I?
Suit Lady: Youre in the most secure facility on the Eastern Seaboard. The Damage Control Deep Storage Vault.
Peter: No. Seriously?
[Shocked, Peter puts both hands to his head. On the wall before him, DODC-V05 is written in big black letters.]
[Time has passed. Peter is clinging to the horizontal crack of the massive doors as he tries to wedge them open.]
Suit Lady: The door will most likely remain closed until morning.
[Peter kicks at the bottom of the doors.]
Peter: (disappointed) Morning?
[Later. Peter is lying on a hammock made out of his webs.]
Peter: Hey, suit lady, I kind of feel bad calling you suit lady, you know? I think I should probably give you a name... like Liz. No, no, no. God, thats... thats weird.
[With one hand, Peter swings on a rope that is also made out of his webs, and lets go, dropping to the floor and lying down.]
Peter: What about Karen?
Suit Lady: You can call me Karen if you would like.
[Peter reads a book hanging upside down. His web is held between his feet and suspending him from the ceiling.]
Peter: Hey, Karen, what else can this suit do?
[Wings expand from under his arms. Peter gasps in surprise.]
Peter: What?
[Standing in front of an empty wall, Peter is now wearing his yellow Midtown high school blazer over his suit. The suit is flashing a laser spider man emblem on the wall. Peter is examining the options for his web.]
Peter: Maybe we should run that refresher course.
Karen: Ricochet web.
Peter: Ricochet web.
[Peter shoots a ricochet web on the wall and it immediately bounces back. He ducks to dodge the ball-shaped bundle of web.]
Peter: Whoa! Cool.
[Later. The wall is covered with patches of spiderwebs now.]
Karen: Splitter web.
[Peter fires two strands of web.]
[More time has passed. The wall is even messier.]
Karen: Web grenade.
[Peter jumps, and throws a small, metal-like ball of web.]
Peter: Web grenade!
[The web grenade explodes, and the web covers the wall even more.]
[Later. Peter jump ropes with a strand of web.]
[Later. Peter is lying face up on one of the trailers.]
Peter: Should I tell Liz that Im Spider-Man?
Karen: Who is Liz?
Peter: Who is Liz? Shes.. heh. Shes the best. Shes awesome. She, uh, shes just a girl who goes to my school. And, uh... Yeah, I just... I really want to tell her, but its kind of weird, you know? Hey, Im... Im Spider-Man.
Karen: Whats weird about that?
Peter: What if shes expecting someone like Tony Stark? I mean, imagine how disappointed shed be when she sees me.
Karen: Well, if I were her, I wouldnt be disappointed at all.
Peter: Thanks, Karen. Its really nice to have somebody to talk to. Hey, how long we been here anyways?
Karen: Thirty seven minutes.
Peter: What? Thirty seven minutes?
[Peter sits up, unable to control the frustration.]
Peter: Thats insane. I cannot take this anymore. I gotta... I gotta get out of here.
[Peter flips off a container and walks into it. He sighs and takes off his blazers and his hoodie.]
Peter: Theres got to be something in here I can use.
[He opens Vultures duffel bag.]
Peter: Okay, lets see.
[Peter inspects a wheel-shaped metal piece then throws it away.]
Peter: Nope.
[He pulls out a Ultron head.]
Peter: Thats awesome. [The Ultron head makes a clanging sound as it is discarded on the floor. Peter holds a purple glowing object.]
Peter: Ah, hey, its like the glowy thing.
Karen: That glowy thing is an explosive Chitauri energy core.
Peter: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! You mean, weve been carrying around a bomb?
Karen: It would require radiation to transform it into an explosive state.
[Peter finds his phone and tries to call Ned but cant get any reception.]
Peter: No, no, no, no, no.
[Peter uses webs to swing to the warehouse doors. Clinging onto the doors, he starts banging and shouting, hoping someone would hear him.]
Peter: Hey! Please! Please, somebody, let me out! Hey! Karen, you have to help me override that time lock.
[Peter hangs upside down from the ceiling next to the time lock close to the doors. He has opened the lock panel and is now putting in numbers. In his hands are a notepad and a pen.]
Peter: Okay Karen. Lower the voltage and run it.
Karen: Trial unsuccessful.
Peter: Okay, were just gonna have to try every sequence.
[Peter crosses out the wrong sequence on his notepad.]
[The sun is rising over the Washington D.C.]
[At the hotel, Ned waits in his room. Someone knocks on the door.]
Student: Ned, Peter, were gonna be late. Come on, lets go.
Ned: Okay, hold on, hold on.
[Ned grabs the energy core.]
[Peter is still trying to override the lock. He yawns, then presses some buttons.]
Karen: Initiating trial 247.
[The massive warehouse doors groan as they open.]
Peter: It worked! It works!
[Peter swings out on his webs through the opening doors. Peter crawls on the ceiling outside, then drops on the trailer of a departing truck. He lies down as the truck passes an armed guard.]
[The students are entering the Decathlon venue.]
Moderator: Please be sure all cell phones are turned off.
[Ned hand his phone in to the security.]
Security: Thank you.
[Peter is standing on the back of a trailer truck. A ringing tone is heard in the background.]
Peter: Karen, you have to get me to Decathlon as fast as possible.
Karen: Sure thing. Just tell me where it is.
Peter: Right across the street from the Washington Monument.
[We see Peter holding his phone to his ear.]
Ned: Hey, its Ned. Leave a message.
Peter: Ned, call me back! The glowy thing is a bomb!
[At the Decathlon, the students are scribbling. We pan down to see the purple energy core glowing in Neds pocket.]
Karen: Theres a vehicle approaching on your right.
[Peter grunts, and climbs on top of the cargo.]
Moderator: We have now entered sudden death.
[The students prepare themselves, trying to be calm and placing their hands on their buzzers. Flash takes a deep breath, clearly nervous.]
[The scene cuts over to Peter as he leaps on a SUV.]
Moderator: The next correct answer wins the championship.
[Michelle hits the answer bell with a bored, impassive look.]
Moderator: Midtown Tech?
Michelle: Zero.
Moderator: That is correct. Midtown takes the championship!
[Ned hugs Michelle and she smiles. More Midtown students pile in for a group hug.]
[The Midtown High students are walking toward the Washington Monument.]
Student: We won!
Liz: You guys, I am so proud of you.
Flash: Told you we didnt need Peter.
Ned: Flash, you didnt answer a single question.
[Michelle is standing alone with a book.]
Mr. Harrington: Taking it all in, Michelle?
Michelle: Oh, yeah, I just... um, I dont really want to celebrate something that was built by slaves.
Mr. Harrington: Oh, Im sure the Washington Monument wasnt built by-
[Mr. Harrington looks up at the monument. A park ranger wobbles his hand as a confirmation to Michelles words. Mr. Harrington purses his lips and walks away.]
Mr. Harrington: Okay. Enjoy your book.
Michelle: Thanks.
[Peter swings on top of a bus. Peter and Ned finally reach each other on the phone.]
Peter: Oh, Ned, youre alive!
[Ned is at the Washington Monument, about to get a security check.]
Ned: (whispers) Peter, are you okay?
Peter: Ned, Ned, wheres the glowy thing, the glowy thing?
Ned: Dont worry, its safe. Its in my backpack.
[Ned puts his backpack down on the conveyor belt for an X-ray security scan.]
Peter: No, Ned, listen! No, no, Ned, the glowy thing is dangerous.
Ned: You missed the Decathlon. I covered for you.
Peter: Ned, listen to me!
Ned: Were at the Washington Monument now. You gotta- [Liz takes the phone from Ned.]
Liz: Peter, is that you?
Peter: Oh, hey, Liz.
Karen: Is that Liz?
[Peter jumps from the bus, tumbles on his back, and starts running.]
Peter: Please put Ned back on the phone.
Karen: You should tell her how you feel.
[Peter tries to put a word in edgewise but Liz ignores him and talks on.]
Liz: You freak! You are so lucky we won. You know, I want to be mad, but Im more worried. Like, what is going on with you?
[Now at the Lincoln Memorial, Peter is running towards the Washington Monument.]
Peter: Liz, I have to talk to Ned. Its really important!
Security: Miss, all items on the belt, please.
Peter: Liz, theres something in Neds backpack! Its really dangerous. Dont let it go through an X-ray.
[Not hanging up, Liz puts Neds phone through the X-ray machine along with Neds backpack. Ned walks through the scanner, oblivious, and moves to collect his backpack. The X-ray scanner screen buzzes.]
Peter: Liz? Liz! Damn it.
[Peter keeps running, and the Washington Monument comes into view as he gets closer.]
[Ned puts on his bag. The students enter an elevator.]
Flash: Hey, Mr. Harrington, can I be the one to tell Peter hes expelled?
[Outside the Washington Monument, Peter webs his backpack to a tree.]
[The elevator is steadily climbing upwards. The core in Neds backpack begins to glow.]
Tour Guide: The Washington Monument is 555 feet, 5 and 1/8 inches tall. Notice how the marble and granite are cut around the stone.
[The energy core erupts with light, breaking glass, and the tip of the monument cracks.]
[Peter arrives at the base of the monument.]
Tourist: Did you hear that?
Peter: No, no, no, no, no, no. Karen, whats going on up there?
Karen: The Chitauri core has detonated and caused severe structural damage to the elevator.
[The spider suit provides Peter a view inside the monument, and it is shown that several people are gathered inside the elevator.]
Peter: Oh, no.
Michelle: My friends are up there!
Peter: What? Uh... Dont worry, maam. Everythings gonna be okay. Excuse me, excuse me. Oh, my god, thats tall.
[Peter runs through the crowd, leaps onto the side of the monument, and crawls up.]
[On the elevator, Ned drops his backpack. The small space is filled with smoke.]
Charles: Oh, my god. Look at the ceiling.
[A glowing, red crack cuts across the elevator ceiling.]
Liz: Just stay calm, everyone.
Abe: Oh, we are all going to die here.
[Michelle peers up at Peter. Hes climbing on the monument, and has gotten so high that hes merely a dot seen from below.]
Karen: Estimating 10 minutes before catastrophic failure.
[Inside the elevator:]
Charles: We're freakin' screwed.
Tour Guide: Okay guys, I know that was scary, but our safety systems are working.
[Peter is now panting.]
Karen: The safety systems are completely failing.
[The tour guide drones on in order to calm the students.]
Tour Guide: We're very safe in here.
[Outside the Monument:]
Karen: The occupants are in imminent mortal danger.
Peter: I'm going as fast as I can!
[Peter pulls himself up with double strands of web.]
[Park rangers open the doors to the elevator shaft. The tour guide opens a hatch in the ceiling of the car, and looks out.]
[Peter continues climbing.]
[Cindy is pulled out of the elevator.]
Park Ranger: Let's go. Give me your hand.
Karen: You now have 125 seconds until catastrophic failure.
[Peters hands slip a little.]
Peter: What? Why?
Karen: Unexpected motion has caused the deterioration to escalate.
[The spider suit shows the elevator. The park rangers rescuing the students are making the elevator move.
PETER Peter: How do I get in there?
KAREN Karen: Activating reconnaissance drone.
The emblem on Peters suit detaches, and the spider-shaped robot flies up, over the monument.]
Peter: Whoa, has that been there the whole time? Thats awesome.
Karen: Locating optimal entry point.
[The small drone finds a window.]
Karen: Proceed to southwest window.
Peter: Karen, I'm on my way.
[Peter moves around the monument, and continues climbing. Down below, people have started to gather to see whats happening.]
[Inside, Abe peers down the long elevator shaft.]
[Peter reaches the top of the monument. Pausing, he turns onto his back and clings to the cracked stone.]
Peter: Ah!
[Cautiously, Peter peers over the edge to the ground far below.]
Peter: Okay. Oh, my god. Okay.
[He then takes panicky breaths and sticks to the wall.]
Karen: What's wrong? You've reached the southwest window. Why are you hesitating?
Peter: Its fine. Its just, I've just never been this high before.
[Peter tries to shoo away the seagulls perched on the windowsill. Karens voice is calm and kind as she informs Peter.]
Karen: You have also not reinstalled your parachute, so a fall from this height would most likely be lethal.
[Peter moves on top of the windowsill and the seagulls fly away.]
Peter: Perfect. Oh, my god.
[Peter kicks the window.]
Peter: Why is it not breaking?
Karen: It's a four-inch ballistic glass. You'll have to create more momentum.
[Peter shoots a web against the monument wall and rappels down the strand until his feet lie flat against the glass. Jumping, he swings against the window. The glass cracks slightly.]
[Police helicopters approach, guns ready. Speakers boom as a police officer speaks out.]
Police: This is D.C. Metro police. Identify yourself.
Peter: My friends are in there! My friends are in there! Stop!
Police: Return to the ground immediately.
[Inside the elevator:]
Mr. Harrington: Okay, who's next?
[Liz grabs Mr. Harringtons shoulder, preparing to climb up.]
Flash: Me, it's my turn!
[Flash shoves Liz to get out first, and doesnt give up the trophy.]
Ned: Flash, seriously? What are you doing?
Flash: Come on.
Cindy: Don't worry about the trophy.
[Flash climbs through the hatch in the ceiling of the elevator, and the car shakes.]
Students: Ah!
[Through the yet unbroken window, Peter is watching the students panic.]
[Peter stands against the window as police helicopters hover around him. An officer is aiming his gun in Peters direction.]
Police: Stand down! Return to the ground immediately!
[Peter is panting heavily, but he climbs to the top of the monument.]
Police: Return to the ground or we will open fire!
[The police officer follows Peter with the aim of his gun, but Peter disappears from his view to the other side of the monument.]
Police: (to the pilot) Go up, go up!
Peter: I got this.
Flash: Take my trophy!
[The car shakes again under Flashs feet.]
Police: This is your last chance!
Peter: Oh, I'm gonna die.
[Peter jumps toward the closest helicopter and extends his web-wings, gliding over the menacing helicopter blades. He shoots a web at the skid, and swings toward the window.]
Peter: Break!
[The window shatters into pieces as Peter swings in, and the roof of the elevator is ripped off. The elevator starts to fall. Peter slides in toward the elevator shaft.]
Liz/Ned: Ahh!
[Peter shoots a strand of web onto the falling elevator, then braces his feet against the doors to the shaft. Liz, Ned and Mr. Harrington are jostled in the elevator as it is stopped.]
Peter: I did it! Whoa!
[The doors break loose, and Peter falls after the plummeting elevator. It catches on a beam and Peter falls in through the ceiling on his back. The impact breaks off a wheel and the car starts to drop again. Peter shoots a web through the hole in the ceiling, stopping the elevators descent. Hanging upside down with his feet braced against the ceiling of the elevator, Peter grabs on to the strand of web, and tries to make his voice sound different as he helps his friends calm down.]
Peter: Ahem. Hey, how you doing? Don't worry about it. I got you.
Ned: Yes! Yes!
[Ned swings his fist in joy and relief, making the whole elevator wobble.]
Peter: Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, big guy, quit moving around.
Ned: Sorry, sir. So sorry.
[Outside, a fire truck and an ambulance arrive.]
Park Ranger: Let's go, let's go!
[With his web attached to the ceiling high above, Peter slowly pulls the elevator up the shaft. They reach an upper floor.]
Park Ranger: Okay, okay.
Cindy: Mr. Harrington, go. Ned, come on.
Peter: Alright. This is your stop.
Ned: Come on, Liz.
[The metal elevator ceiling starts to bend under Peters feet.]
Peter: Go, go, go. Everybody out! Move it, people. Move it, move it!
Liz: Are you sure its safe?
[Liz reaches out, but before she can hold Mr. Harringtons outstretched hand, the ceiling snaps.]
Mr. Harrington: Liz!
[Peter webs Liz as the elevator falls. She dangles by her wrist.]
Peter: Youre okay. Youre okay.
[Peter pulls her up by the web, then takes her hand.]
Peter: Okay.
[His web starts to snap as he helps Liz to safety.]
Students: Oh, my god. Good, good.
Mr. Harrington: Come on up. Come on, you guys, stay back. Come on in. Come on in.
Peter: So, uh, is everyone okay?
[Liz nods.]
Karen: This is your chance, Peter. Kiss her.
[Liz and Peter hold a look. The web snaps, and Peter drops. The students, the teacher, and the park rangers look down the elevator shaft going after Peter as he falls.]
Mr. Harrington: Thank you.
[Flash peers down the shaft.]
Flash: Are you really friends with Peter Parker?
[In Vultures warehouse, Schultz tries out the shocker gauntlet. He can move a whole van with the force of his punch. Mason sits at his work table, clutching his work when the table wobbles.]
Mason: I can finish the next order, but without any new materials from that truck...
Toomes: Ugh, damn it. We still have enough to do the Gargan deal though, right?
Mason: Yeah, but then that's it.
[Perching on the table, Vulture strokes his chin.]
Mason: Oh, maybe it is time that I built the high-altitude seal.
Toomes: Would you shut up about that?
Mason: It's only one job.
Toomes: No.
[Schultz stands nearby.]
Toomes: Eight years, not a word from the Feds, nothing from those Halloween-costume-wearing bozos up there in Stark tower. And then all of a sudden, this little bastard in red tights shows up and he thinks he can tear down everything I've built. Really?
[Vulture shrugs.]
Toomes: Im gonna kill him. I'm gonna find him...
Schultz: I found him.
[On TV, the news shows spider man at the Washington Monument. The headline says Man Spider Climbs Washington Monument.]
News Anchor: Spider-Man swooped in, heroically saving an Academic Decathlon team from Queens. The identity of the masked hero is still unknown.
[Vultures expression is unreadable as he studies the screen.]
[At night, the students families meet them by the school bus. Lizs mother hugs Liz.]
Liz: Mom.
Doris: Its okay. Alright.
May: Peter?
[Aunt May runs to Peter and embraces him.]
Families: Come here, come here. Oh, my god.
[At school, the student news plays on a TV in the hall.]
Jason: This past weekend, Midtown's Academic Decathlon team defeated the country's best to win the national championship. Later that day, they also defeated death.
Abe: (yells) Explosion. Sally scream. Flash scream. Everybody screamin.
Charles: (excited) There were purple lasers and smoke everywhere, It was...
[A cat emoji appears over Charles mouth and a beep is inserted as he swears.]
Charles: ...just like a bon Jovi concert.
Mr. Harrington: As you know, we made it out alive, and that's the important thing. I couldn't bear to lose a student on a school trip. Not again.
[The camera amateurishly zooms in on Mr. Harringtons face.]
Jason: Thankfully, no one was seriously injured, thanks to the Spider-Man.
Jason/Betty: (awkwardly) Thank you, Spider-Man.
Jason: Up next: The Spider-Man mania is sweeping the school. How can you show your spider spirit?
[Peter grins as he walks past the TV showing the student news. A few students are standing around the TV to watch the news. As Peter cheerfully enters another hall, Ned joins him.]
Ned: Dude, dude, dude, dude. What is it like being famous when nobody knows it's you?
Peter: Crazy, dude.
Ned: Its crazy. Should we tell everyone?
Peter: No.
Ned: Should I tell everyone?
Peter: No, dude, no, thats not a good idea.
Ned: Okay, come on, we'll be late to class.
Peter: Im not going to class.
Ned: Youre already in so much trouble for ditching the Decathlon.
Peter: Dude, listen, I figured it out, right? The wing suit guy is stealing from Damage Control. And what he takes from Damage Control, thats how he builds the weapons. So all I gotta do is catch him.
Ned: But we have a Spanish quiz.
Peter: Ned, I'm probably never gonna come back here. Mr. Stark is moving the Avengers upstate, so when I bring this guy in-
Ned: Dude, you want to be a high school dropout?
Peter: I am so far beyond high school right now.
Principal Morita: Parker, my office.
[At detention. A video plays, featuring Captain America. He pulls up a chair and sits.]
Steve: So... You got detention. You screwed up.
[Peter sighs and bites his lip in frustration.]
Steve: You know what you did was wrong. The question is, how are you gonna make things right? Maybe you were trying to be cool. But take it from a guy who's been frozen for 65 years, the only way to really be cool is to follow the rules.
[We see the classroom is sparsely filled with students. Michelle is sitting in a seat behind Peter. Peter sighs again and stands up forcefully.]
Steve: We all know what's right. We all know what's wrong. Next time those turkeys try to convince you of something you know is wrong...
[Peter gets up and marches out past Michelle. Coach Wilson is slouching at a desk.]
Coach Wilson: (indifferently) Hey, where you going? Get back here.
Steve: Just think to yourself, what would Captain America do?
Coach Wilson: (to Michelle) Why are you here? You don't even have detention.
Michelle: Oh, I know. I just like coming here to sketch people in crisis.
[Michelle holds up a sketch depicting Coach Wilson.]
Michelle: Heh. It's you.
Steve: So your body's changing. Believe me, I know how that feels.
[In the empty hallway, Peter lifts a row of lockers off the ground, revealing a hidden space beneath. He grabs a bottle of web fluid and lowers the lockers. Peter throws the bottle up in the air, and catches it again.]
[Arriving home, Peter peeks in the front door.]
Peter: May?
[He checks the living room, which looks empty.]
[We are now inside Peter's bedroom. Peter is wearing normal clothes over his suit and lounging in his chair.]
Peter: Hey, Karen. What's up?
Karen: Hey, Peter. How was your Spanish quiz?
Peter: Listen, I was wondering if you could help me. I'm trying to figure out who the guys under the bridge were that night, but I mean, I can only kind of remember part of a license plate.
Karen: I can run facial recognition on the footage of that encounter.
[A string of data appears in front of Peters eyes.]
Peter: Footage?
Karen: Yes, Peter. I record everything you see.
Peter: Everything?
Karen: Everything.
Peter: Like all the time?
Karen: It's called the Baby Monitor Protocol.
[Peter throws away his pen in irritation.]
Peter: Yeah, of course it is. Um, yeah, just roll it back to last Friday.
Karen: With pleasure.
[Karen shows a footage of Peter fooling around in front of a mirror in his spider suit mask.]
Peter: (on video)Hey, everyone. Yeah, kick-ass party. Hey, what's up, Liz? Peter's told me a lot about you.
[The Peter in the footage winks.]
Peter: No, no, no. No, no, no. This is just me messing around. Go later in the day, later in the day.
[Karen fast-forwards the video.]
Peter: (on video) It is I, Thor, son of Odin!
[Peter is doing impressions of Thor, holding a wooden hammer in his hand.]
Peter: No, no, no, no, no, no. That's definitely... no. That's definitely not what we wanted to watch. Just...
Karen: Your impressions are very funny.
Peter: Fast-forward to the arms deal.
[Peter stands up. The footage shows three men from the arms deal that Peter was searching for.]
Peter: Okay. The two on the right, who are they?
Karen: Searching law enforcement databases. No records found for two of the individuals.
Peter: Nothing?
Karen: One individual identified. Aaron Davis, age 33. He has a criminal record and an address here in Queens.
[The spider suit displays the criminal record of Aaron Davis.]
Peter: Let's pay him a visit.
Karen: Would you like me to activate the Enhanced Interrogation Protocol?
Peter: Uh, yeah.
[In a parking building, the scruffy man from the weapons deal, Aaron Davis, carries groceries to his car. The spider drone follows him. As Aaron opens the trunk, Peter arrives in his spider man suit. He sticks Aarons hand to the trunk with a web. Annoyed, Aaron stares at the spider drone.]
Peter: Remember me?
[Peter speaks in a deep metallic voice. He approaches Aarons car, and Aaron seems taken aback.]
Aaron: Uh, hey...
Peter: I need information. You're gonna give it to me now.
Aaron: All right, chill.
Peter: Come on!
Aaron: What happened to your voice?
Peter: What do you mean, what happened to my voice?
Aaron: I heard you by the bridge. I know what a girl sound like.
Peter: I'm not a girl! I'm a boy. I mean, I'm a... I'm a man.
Aaron: I don't care what you are, a boy, a girl...
Peter: I'm not a girl! I'm a man. Come on, man. Look, who is selling these weapons? I need to know. Give me names or else.
[Aaron slams the trunk shut, and Peter startles. He steps back and looks around in surprise. The spider drone chirps and flies around Peters head.]
Aaron: You ain't ever done this before, huh?
Peter: Deactivate interrogation mode.
[The spider drone goes back in the emblem on the suits chest. Aaron laughs. Peters voice changes back to its high-pitched tone.]
Peter: Look, man, these guys are selling weapons that are crazy dangerous. They can't just be out on the streets. Look, if one of them can just cut Delmar's bodega in half...
[Aaron is looking at his fingers, sniffing, not amused. However, when Peter mentions Delmars, he gains interest.]
Aaron: You know Delmar's?
Peter: Yeah, best sandwich in Queens.
Aaron: Sub Haven's pretty good.
Peter: It's too much bread.
Aaron: I like bread.
Peter: Come on, man, please.
[Peter starts to walk away.]
Peter: Stupid interrogation mode. Karen, don't ever do that again.
Aaron: The other night, you told that dude, "if you shoot somebody, shoot me." It's pretty ballsy. I don't want those weapons in this neighborhood. I got a nephew who live here.
[Peter stops when Aaron starts speaking, and walks back to him.]
Peter: Who are these guys? What can you tell me about the guy with the wings?
Aaron: Other than he's a psychopath dressed like a demon, nothing. I don't know who he is or where he is.
[Peter leans his head on Aarons car, and gives out a sigh.]
Aaron: I do know where he's gonna be.
Peter: Really?
Aaron: Yeah, this crazy dude I used to work with, he's supposed to be doing a deal with him.
Peter: Yes! Yes. Thank-
[Peter starts to walk happily away, giggling.]
Aaron: Hey. Hey. Hey. I didn't tell you where. You don't have a location.
Peter: Right, of course. Yeah, my bad. Silly. Just...
[Embarrassed, Peter comes closer and leans on the car.]
Peter: Yeah. Where is it?
Aaron: Can I give you some advice?
Peter: Hmm?
Aaron: You got to get better at this part of the job.
Peter: I don't understand. I'm intimidating.
[Peter demonstrates his intimidating pose, crossing his arms.]
Aaron: Staten Island ferry, eleven.
Peter: Oh, that's soon. Hey, that's gonna dissolve in two hours.
Aaron: No, no, no, no. Come fix this.
Peter: Two hours. You deserve that.
[Peter walks away, stabbing a finger in Aarons direction.]
Aaron: I got ice cream in here.
Peter: You deserve that. You're a criminal. Bye, Mr. Criminal.
[At the Staten Island Ferry terminal, Peter swings onto a building roof. As the massive orange ferry pulls out of the dock, he takes a running leap and spreads his glider wings. He lands and hangs on the hull.]
Peter: (grunts) Nice.
[He peeks through a window and sees passengers sitting inside.]
Peter: Okay, Karen, activate Enhanced Reconnaissance Mode.
Karen: Sure thing.
Toomes: Hes up front. Main deck.
Schultz: I hate this guy.
Peter: Its the guy from the bridge, right? Whos that other guy?
Toomes: Just keep me posted.
Karen: Theres no record of him in my criminal database. Incoming call from May Peter. Should I reroute to your heads-up display?
Peter: I cant talk right now. Ill call her back.
[He watches Toomes. The spider drone climbs onto his head.]
Peter: Hey, dronie, keep an eye on that guy. We cant let anybody get away this time.
[The drone hovers by the window. Peter climbs up to the ferry roof. He crawls to the edge and peers down at four men on the front deck.]
Peter: Whos the guy on the left?
Karen: Mac Gargan. Extensive criminal record, including homicide. Would you like me to activate Instant Kill?
Peter: No, Karen, stop it with the Instant Kill already.
[Schultz approaches Gargan.]
Schultz: White pickup truck.
[Gargan nods to a slim man who walks away.]
Peter: Dronie, scan the ship for a white pickup truck.
[The tiny drone scans the cargo under the deck and spots a pickup truck. It hovers over the truck and scans its contents. Toomes coworker gets out of the car and leads the slim man to the back.]
Peter: Oh, this is too perfect. I got the weapons, buyers, and sellers all in one place.
Karen: Incoming call from Tony Stark.
Peter: No, no, no. No, no, dont answer.
Tony Stark: Mr. Parker. Got a sec?
Peter: Uh, Im actually at school.
Karen: No, youre not.
Tony Stark: Nice work in D.C.
Peter: Okay.
Tony Stark: My dad never really gave me a lot of support... And Im just trying to break the cycle of shame.
Peter: Uh, Im kind of in the middle of something right now.
Tony Stark: Dont cut me off when Im complimenting you. Anyway, great things are about to-
[The ferry horn blares.]
Tony Stark: What is that?
Peter: Uh, Im at band practice.
Tony Stark: Thats odd. Happy told me you quit band six weeks ago. Whats up?
Peter: I gotta go. Uh, end call.
Tony Stark: Hey.
Peter: Ill take those! (snatches a key chain) Yoink!
[He then leaps onto the deck.]
Peter: Hey, guys. The illegal-weapons-deal-ferry was at 10:30. You missed it.
[He disarms two guys with the spiderweb, kicks Gargan, and slams him. Peter ducks from Schultzs Shocker gauntlet, which gets caught in a gate.]
Randy: Spider guys here.
[Toomes leaves his seat. Two thugs get up behind Peter.]
Peter: Whoa, whoa, whoa. Not so fast.
[Peter throws them both.]
Peter: Are you guys okay? My bad. That was a little hard.
[He eyes Schultz, who is still struggling to free himself.]
Peter: I gotta say the other guy was way better with that thing.
[He then reloads his web-shooter.]
Peter: Im honestly, Im, Im shocked.
[Peter shoots a web grenade behind him, attaching a thug to the wall with it. In the cargo hold, Toomes bashes the slim mans head against the truck. He then faces Peter, who is standing yards away on deck. Suddenly, agents come out of nowhere and aim at Peter.]
FBI Agent 1: Freeze! FBI!
FBI Agent 2: Dont move.
FBI Agent 1: Get on the ground.
FBI Agent 1: FBI.
Peter: Wait, what do you mean, FBI?
Karen: The FBI is the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Peter: I know what the FBI means, but what are they doing here?
[A mechanical wing bursts out of the truck, making the agents turn to it. Toomes flies toward the deck in his vulture suit. Agents shoot at him.]
Peter: Get out of the way! Get out of the way!
[Vulture fires a high tech weapon, drags a car, and throws it to the agents.]
Peter: Look out, look out, look out. Move, move, move!
[Vulture hits Peter, causing him to fall into the water. He then fires energy blasts at a mans arm.]
Toomes: Get to the top deck. Were getting out of here.
[Peter shoots his web at Schultz, but misses. He shoots the web at Vultures leg and pulls. Vulture hides behind his large metal wings that protects him from the gunfire, then shoots at the agents. One blast hits an indoor seating area. Peter weighs Vulture with a car attached to his web. Dodging a blast, he leaps to the upper deck and shoots some more web. Hanging from Vultures suit, Peter swings over the water. The flying man fires at Peter. He swings back onto the deck. Vulture cuts the strands of web with the blades of his wings. Peter shoots web at the barrel of Vultures high tech weapon.]
Peter: Activate Taser Web!
[Electricity travels up the strand of web and the weapon is yanked away from Vulture. On the deck, it bounces around wildly. Peter traps the weapon using lots of spiderweb.]
Toomes: Youre messing with things you dont understand.
[The weapons laser beam breaks up into multiple rays. The energy blast cuts through the upper seating area, narrowly missing frightened passengers. In the air, Vulture dodges the blasts as they shoot into the sky. Schultz sprints toward an upper deck, leaps into the air, and lands on Vultures back. The rays slice through the length of the ferry, then vanish. In the seating area, passengers move cautiously. In the cargo bay, jets of water start to split up the ferry.]
Peter: Oh, my god. What do I do? Karen, uh, give me an X-ray of the boat and target all the strongest points.
[Peters display highlights spots on the structure.]
Peter: Web grenade. Web grenade.
[Shooting web, he leaps between the two sides of the ship.]
Peter: Splitter web, go.
[Peter tumbles back and forth on the upper part of the ferry, connecting the ship with strands of web. He dodges flames as he travels down the length of the ferry. Peter fires several strands of web and once, and binds them together with another strand. Reaching the bow, he crouches on the edge of the roof. He eyes the two leaning halves of the ferry that are crisscrossed with spiderweb.]
Karen: Great job, Peter. You are 98 percent successful.
Peter: Ninety-eight?
Man: Yeah, Spider-Man!
[The web strands begin to snap.]
Peter: No, no, no, no!
[Water floods the cargo hold, pushing the cars forward. People cling to posts as the stream rushes past them. On the upper level, passengers slide down the floor of the leaning ferry. The gap widens as the web strands continue to snap. Peter leaps into the air.]
Peter: No!
[He grabs a thread and shoots another. Arms outstretched, Peter hangs between the two sides, trying to hold them together.]
[Suddenly, the two sides start to move toward each other.]
Peter: What the hell?
[Peter lands gently in the seating area and looks around.]
Peter: What the hell...
[Iron Man rises into view.]
Tony Stark: Hi, Spider-Man. Band practice, was it?
[Hovering outside, he holds up one half of the boat. Drones arrive and attach themselves to the other half. Thrusters propel the two halves of the ferry forward and join them together.]
[Iron Man looks at Peter through the window, then flies off.]
Man: Yeah, Iron Man!
[Peter swings into the cargo hold, where Iron Man is welding the ferry back together.]
Peter: Uh, Mr. Stark? Hey, Mr. Stark. Could I do anything? What do you want me to do?
Tony Stark: I think youve done enough.
[Iron Man flies away. Peter climbs to the top platform of a mast and looks around. Smoke is pouring out from the massive vessel. Rescue boats and helicopters approach from all directions.]
[Schultz is walking toward Vulture in the warehouse when he speaks out:]
Toomes: So thats it, youre just gonna run?
Schultz: Feds were waiting for us. Now were on Iron Mans radar? Yeah, Im running. You should, too.
Toomes: You know I cant do that.
Schultz: So now what?
Toomes: Mason, can you get that high-altitude seal thing up and running in time?
Mason: Seriously? Yes. You will not regret this.
Toomes: (to Schultz) You in?
[Schultz smiles faintly and lifts his eyebrows.]
[Helicopters are still flying around the ferry. Peter is perching on the edge of a building, sans mask, when Iron Man flies over to him.]
Tony Stark: Previously on Peter Screws the Pooch: I tell you to stay away from this. Instead, you hacked a multimillion-dollar suit so you could sneak around behind my back doing the one thing I told you not to do.
Peter: Is everyone okay?
Tony Stark: No thanks to you.
Peter: No thanks to me?
[Angered, Peter jumps off the edge and approaches Tony.]
Peter: Those weapons were out there, and I tried to tell you about it. But you didnt listen. None of this wouldve happened if you had just listened to me. If you even cared, youd actually be here.
[The Iron Man suit opens, revealing Tony inside. He steps down from the suit and marches toward Peter, who backs off.]
Tony Stark: I did listen, kid. Who do you think called the FBI, huh? Do you know that I was the only one who believed in you? Everyone else said I was crazy to recruit a 14-year-old kid.
Peter: Im fifteen.
Tony Stark: No, this is where you zip it, all right? The adult is talking. What if somebody had died tonight? Different story, right? Cause thats on you. And if you died, I feel like thats on me. I dont need that on my conscience.
Peter: Yes, sir.
Tony Stark: Yes.
Peter: I, Im sorry.
Tony Stark: Sorry doesnt cut it.
Peter: I understand. I just wanted to be like you.
Tony Stark: And I wanted you to be better. Okay, its not working out. Im gonna need the suit back.
Peter: For how long?
Tony Stark: Forever.
[Peter shakes his head with a shocked expression.]
Tony Stark: Yeah. Yeah, thats how it works.
Peter: No, no, no... Please, please, please...
Tony Stark: Lets have it.
Peter: You dont understand. Please. This is all I have. Im nothing without this suit.
Tony Stark: If youre nothing without this suit, then you shouldnt have it. Okay? God, I sound like my dad.
Peter: I dont have any other clothes.
Tony Stark: Okay, well sort that out.
[Peter walks down the hallway of his apartment wearing pink Hello Kitty pajamas and an oversized NYC tourist T-shirt. He knocks on a door, which May answers.]
Peter: (whispers) Hey.
[May inhales deeply and storms inside.]
May: Ive been calling you all day. You didnt answer your phone. You cant do that. Then this ferry thing happens. Ive called five police stations.
[Peter walks to May and stands behind her.]
May: Five. I called five of your friends.
Peter: Im fine.
May: I called Neds mother.
Peter: May, Im okay. Honestly. Just relax. Im fine.
[May stands and faces Peter.]
May: You. Cut the bullshit. I know you left detention. I know you left the hotel room in Washington. I know you sneak out of this house every night. Thats not fine. Peter, you have to tell me whats going on. Just lay it out. Its just me and you.
[A beat, then Peters eyes fill up with tears.]
Peter: I lost the Stark internship.
May: What?
Peter: Yeah.
May: What happened?
Peter: I just thought that I could work really hard and he could, he would, you know. But I screwed it up.
[Peter sits down on the sofa next to him. May hugs him and strokes him.]
May: Oh... Its okay, its okay. Its okay.
Peter: Im sorry I made you worry.
May: You know Im not trying to ruin your life.
Peter: Yeah, I know.
May: Just... I used to sneak out too.
Peter: Yeah.
[May scowls, then leans in to sniff Peters hair.]
May: And take a shower. You smell. You smell like garbage.
Peter: I know.
[Through a window, we see Peter facing Principal Morita.]
Principal Morita: Peter, youre a good kid and youre a smart kid. So just try to keep your head straight, okay?
Peter: Okay.
Principal Morita: All right. Get out of here.
[Peter takes his bag, exits the principals office. Ned is waiting for him in the hallway.]
Ned: Are you expelled? Do you have to go to that high school on 46th where the principal has a crossbow?
Peter: Pretty sure thats an urban myth, and no, Im not expelled.
Ned: Youre so lucky.
[They walk down the corridor. Tilt up to find a homecoming banner hanging from the ceiling.]
[Peter is resting his head on the desk at detention. He turns to find Michelle holding up a sketch of him with a sad expression.]
[We are now in Spanish class. The clock is ticking. A hand holding a blue pen shoots into frame. Its Peter.]
Peter: Me gusta hacer la tarea. (I like doing homework.)
Spanish Teacher: Muy bueno, seor Parker. (Very good, Mr. Parker.)
[Peter and Ned finish building the Lego Death Star in the orchestra practice room. Ned hands Peter the Palpatine figure, which Peter places on the top. They do a secret handshake.]
[School bell rings. Peter walks out into an empty hallway and sees Liz.]
Peter: Hey.
Liz: Hey.
Peter: I thought you had calculus fifth period.
Liz: Yeah, I was just doing some homecoming stuff.
[Peter approaches Liz.]
Peter: Hey, look, I, uh... I just wanted to apologize about the whole Decathlon thing. I really-
Liz: Its fine. Last week, Decathlon was the most important thing, but then I almost died.
Peter: No, I, I just mean that... it was not cool, especially... (sighs) ...because... I like you.
Liz: I know.
[Peter stares at her, shocked.]
Peter: You do?
Liz: Youre terrible at keeping secrets.
Peter: (smiles) Yeah, youd be surprised.
[An awkward moment. They look at each other.]
Peter: I got to get to class, but, um, Id say we should hang out, but Im gonna be in detention for...
Liz: Uh-huh.
Peter: ...ever, but, um, I guess you already have a date to homecoming.
Liz: Actually, I was so busy planning it I never really got around to that part, so...
[Liz shakes her head.]
Peter: Uh, do you want to go with me?
Liz: (smiles) Yeah. Sure.
Peter: Really? I mean, uh, great. Cool.
Liz: Cool.
Peter: Im actually going that way.
[Carrying the hall pass, Peter walks past Liz. We see her turning to watch him go in the background. A huge grin breaks across Peters face.]
[In his apartment, Peter slides into the kitchen with a frenzied look.]
Peter: May, I need your help.
[May stares at him with a surprised expression. Peter picks out a dress shirt and tie, polishes his shoes, shakes his head in front of a mirror. May prepares a pink ribbon corsage for him. Peter sprays a perfume in the air to test it, then grimaces at the scent. May and Peter watch a YouTube video on how to tie a Windsor knot. Peter turns to May with a surprisingly passable Windsor knot; overlooking his lopsided shirt collar, that is.]
May: Right?
[Peter is now fully dressed in a suit. May teaches him how to dance, then straightens his clothes.]
[Mays car comes to a stop in front of Lizs house.]
May: Its game day. So, whats the plan?
Peter: Open the door for her.
May: Mm-hmm.
Peter: Tell her she looks nice, but not too much because thats creepy.
May: Dont be creepy.
Peter: No. And, uh, when I dance with her, Im putting my hands on her hips. I got this.
[Peter gets out of the car and leans into the car window.]
Peter: Love you.
May: Bye.
[Peter walks up to the front door, pink corsage in hand, then rings the doorbell. He waits with a nervous look for the door to open. With Toomes on the other side. Peters smile fades and he freezes. Toomes grins at him.]
Toomes: You must be Peter.
Peter: Yeah.
Toomes: Im Lizs dad. Put her there.
[They shake hands.]
Toomes: Hell of a grip. Come on in here. Come on.
[Toomes drags Peter inside and closes the door. Peter follows Toomes towards the kitchen. Suddenly:]
Doris: Hi, Peter. You look very handsome.
Peter: Thank you.
Doris: (whispers) You got his name right?
Toomes: Freddie?
Doris: Peter.
Toomes: Peter, Peter.
[Doris chuckles and shakes her head.]
Doris: Im gonna go get Liz.
Peter: Okay.
[She walks out, leaving Peter with Toomes. Toomes starts to polish knives.]
Toomes: You all right, Pete?
Peter: Yeah.
Toomes: Because you look pale. You want something to drink? Like a bourbon or a scotch, or something like that?
Peter: Im not old enough to drink.
Toomes: Thats the right answer.
[Toomes eyes widen as he sees his daughter dressed in a beautiful red dress.]
Toomes: Wow.
[Peter turns in order to see Liz.]
Toomes: Wow, wow, wow. Do you look beautiful.
Liz: Please dont embarrass me, Dad.
Toomes: Doesnt she, Pete?
[Liz moves to stand next to Peter.]
Peter: Yeah, you look really good.
Toomes: Once again, thats the right answer.
Liz: Is that a corsage?
[Staring at Toomes, Peter abruptly hands the corsage to Liz.]
Liz: Thanks.
Toomes: Well, hey, Im your chauffeur, so, uh, lets get this show on the road.
Doris: No, no, no, no, we have to take some pictures, babe. All right. Oh, right here. Perfect.
Liz: Mom.
Doris: Okay. Come on, you guys. Peter, closer.
[Peter stands beside Liz.]
Doris: Smile. There you go.
[Lizs mother takes some more snaps. Peter puts on a tense grin for the photo, his eyes still glued on Toomes.]
Peter: Sir, you dont have to drive us.
Toomes: No, no, its not a big deal. Im going out of town. Its right on my way.
[Liz goes to her mother to check the photos.]
Doris: Hes always coming and going.
Toomes: Last time.
Doris: Have fun.
[Doris hugs her daughter.]
Liz: Thank you.
Toomes: Promise.
Doris: (whispers) Hes cute.
Liz: Shh.
Toomes: See you in a couple of days.
Doris: Bye, baby.
Toomes: All right.
[Doris and Adrian Toomes kiss each other.]
Toomes: Come on, Pedro.
Doris: Bye, Peter. Have fun.
Peter: Yeah, I will.
[Toomes is driving. Liz looks at herself through her phone camera, wearing the corsage Peter gave her, while Peter stares out the window.]
Toomes: What are you gonna do, Pete?
Peter: What?
Toomes: When you graduate, what do you think youre gonna do?
Peter: Oh, um, I dont know.
Liz: Dont grill him, Dad.
Toomes: Just saying, you know. All you guys who go to that school, you pretty much have your life planned out, right?
Peter: Yeah, no, Im just a sophomore.
Liz: Peter has an internship with Tony Stark. So I think he doesnt have to worry.
Toomes: Really?
Liz: Mm-hmm.
Toomes: Stark?
Liz: So cool.
Toomes: What do you do?
Peter: Yeah, actually, I dont intern for him anymore.
[Liz turns to Peter, frowning.]
Liz: Seriously?
Peter: Yeah, it got, um... boring.
Liz: It was boring? You got to hang out with Spider-Man.
Toomes: Really? Spider-Man? Wow. Whats he like?
Peter: Yeah, hes nice. Nice man. Solid dude.
Toomes: Hmm.
[Liz shows Peter her phone.]
Liz: Look, so cute.
Peter: Aww...
[Toomes keeps stealing glances at Peter.]
Toomes: Ive seen you around, right? I mean... Somewhere. Weve, uh, have we ever? Because even the voice...
Liz: Um, he does Academic Decathlon with me.
Toomes: Oh.
Liz: And he was at my party.
Toomes: Ah.
Peter: It was a great party, really great, yeah. Beautiful house, a lot of windows.
[Peter and Liz smile at each other.]
Liz: You were there for, like, two seconds.
Peter: That was... I was there longer than two seconds.
Liz: You disappeared.
Peter: No, no. I did not disappear.
Liz: Yes, you did. You disappeared like you always do. Like you did in D.C., too.
[Toomes glances at Peter suspiciously. He stops at an intersection.]
Toomes: Thats terrible, what happened down there in D.C., though. Were you scared?
[Peter nods tersely.]
Toomes: Ill bet you were glad when your old pal Spider-Man showed up in the elevator, though, huh?
[Peter glances at Liz, then:]
Peter: Yeah, well, I actually didnt go up. I saw it all from the ground.
Liz: Yeah.
[Toomes stares at Peter through the rearview mirror.]
Peter: Very lucky that he was there that day.
Toomes: (grins) Good old Spider-Man.
[The traffic light turns green. Car honks blare behind them.]
Liz: Dad, the light.
[Toomes continues driving and arrives at Midtown High. Outside, well-dressed teenagers are walking to the entrance decorated with colorful balloons.]
Toomes: Here we are. End of the line.
Liz: Thanks, Dad.
Toomes: You head in there, gumdrop. Im gonna give Peter the, uh, the dad talk.
Liz: (to Peter) Dont let him intimidate you.
[Liz kisses her dad on the cheek.]
Liz: Love you.
Toomes: Love you, gumdrop.
Liz: Have a safe flight.
[Liz gets out of the car and joins her friends.]
Liz: Hi! You guys look so pretty.
[Toomes turns to Peter with a gun.]
Toomes: Does she know?
Peter: Know what?
Toomes: So she doesnt. Good. Close to the vest. I admire that. Ive got a few secrets of my own. Of all the reasons I didnt want my daughter to date...
[Toomes cracks a grin and shrugs, but Peter does not say anything.]
Toomes: Peter, nothing is more important than family. You saved my daughters life. I could never forget something like that. So Im gonna give you one chance. Are you ready? You walk through those doors, you forget any of this happened. And dont you ever, ever interfere with my business again. Because if you do, Ill kill you and everybody you love. Ill kill you dead. Thats what Ill do to protect my family. Do you understand?
[Peter nods, unable to meet Toomes eyes.]
Toomes: Hey. I just saved your life. Now, what do you say?
[Peter raises his head and looks straight at Toomes.]
Peter: Thank you.
Toomes: Youre welcome. Now, you go in there and you show my daughter a good time, okay? Just not too good.
[Peter gets out of the car with a tense expression on his face. Toomes drives off. Peter enters the school.]
[Peter walks down the hallway, all sounds muffled as if underwater. He stops and watches his friends through the glass doors. Party in full swing. Spotting him, Ned waves and Michelle gives Peter the finger. A beat, then Peter pulls open the door. Pop music and chattering instantly fills Peters ears. Liz is dancing with some of her friends. She turns to Peter when he approaches.]
Liz: Hey. What did he say to you?
[Peter just stares at Liz with an anxious look. Liz realizes that something is off.]
Peter: Gotta go. Im, Im sorry. You dont deserve this.
[Peter hurries away, leaving Liz in the middle of the dance floor. Michelle watches him go, craning her neck.]
[Peter rushes out through the hallway and unties his tie. He lifts a row of lockers with one hand, picks up his homemade Spider-Man suit from under it.]
[Now clad in his homemade Spider-Man suit, Peter exits the school. As he is about to round a school bus, someone shocks him from behind.]
Schultz: He gave you a choice. You chose wrong.
Peter: Ah, what the hell?
Schultz: Whats with the crappy costume?
[The Shocker prepares his gauntlet for another shot. Peter searches for his web-shooter, which has fallen from the impact and is lying on the ground.]
Peter: My web-shooters...
[Peter runs to the web-shooter, but Schultz hits a school bus to attack Peter, then kicks the web-shooter away.]
Schultz: I wasnt sure about this thing at first, but damn.
[Schultz hits Peter with the weapon, throwing him inside the bus. Peter spots chewed gums under a seat.]
Peter: Ugh. Gross.
[Schultz punches the bus into the air. Peter tumbles as the vehicle lands upside down on the ground. Opening the door, Peter falls out. He slowly crawls to his web-shooter.]
Peter: Why did he send you here?
Schultz: Guess youll never know.
[Suddenly, a strand of web attaches itself to the Shocker gauntlet. Reveal Ned holding the web-shooter.]
Peter: Nice shot!
[Peter pulls the web-shooter to himself and traps Schultz against the school bus with a web blast.]
Peter: Yes! Ned, the guy with the wings is Lizs dad.
Ned: What?
Peter: I know. I gotta tell Mr. Stark. Call Happy Hogan. Hes Mr. Starks head of security. And, uh, get a computer to track my phone for me.
Ned: Are you gonna be okay?
[Peter jumps up onto a streetlight.]
Peter: Hurry, we gotta catch him before he leaves town.
[Ned hurries toward the school building as Peter swings away.]
[Flash is driving his annoyed date to the homecoming dance.]
Flash: Im sorry about dinner, but I know when branzinos fresh, and that was not fresh, okay? So...
[Flash screams as Peter lands on the bonnet of his car.]
Peter: (in a gravelly voice) Flash, I need your car and your phone.
Flash: Uh, sir, technically, this is my dads car, sir. So I cant...
[Flash watches the Spider-Man drive away in his car and hit a row of bikes. He whimpers.]
[Peter makes a call to Ned while driving precariously. Ned takes it in the library, between rows of computers.]
Peter: (in a normal voice) Hello, Ned? Hey, hey, hey, hey, can you hear me?
Ned: Go for Ned.
Peter: Ned, I need you to track my phone for me.
Ned: Yeah, but where is it?
[Peter's phone lights up in the backseat of Toomes car. Toomes is unaware. Ned tracks the signal.]
Ned: Genius move. Okay, he just passed the GameStop on Jackson Avenue.
Peter: Hey, where are the headlights on this thing? Im in Flashs car.
[Ned rolls his chair to another computer.]
Ned: Ill pull the specs.
Peter: Okay, youre on speakerphone.
Ned: You stole Flashs car. Awesome.
Peter: Yeah, its awesome. Its awe... Whoa!
[Peter nearly crashes into other cars.]
Peter: Get out of the way, get out of the way! Move! Move!
Ned: Peter, are you okay?
Peter: Ive never really driven before. Only with May in parking lots. This is a huge step up...
[A car nearly hits Peter, who screams.]
Peter: Hey, have you gotten through to Happy yet?
Ned: Yeah. Im working on it. I just gotta backdoor the phone system.
[Ned rapidly types, then twirls in his chair.]
Ned: Guy in the chair.
[Toomes checks his watch and heads to an old Brooklyn factory warehouse.]
[Happy pops up on Neds computer screen.]
Happy: Takeoff in nine minutes. (to Ned) Hello? Hello? Who is this?
Ned: Uh... Mr. Happy, its Ned.
Happy: Who?
Ned: Im an associate of Peter Parker. Got something very important to tell you-
Happy: You gotta be shitting me.
[Happys screen goes off.]
Ned: Damn.
Peter: Hey, Ned, how we coming on with those headlights?
Ned: Uh... Round knob to the left of the steering wheel, turn clockwise.
Peter: Left. Okay. Okay, perfect. So wheres my phone now?
Ned: Um... He stopped in an old industrial park in Brooklyn.
Peter: What? That makes no sense. I thought he said he was going out of town!
[The car is a literal hazard as it drives down the road.]
Ned: Weird. Oh, I reached Mr. Happy. Dont think he likes you, by the way. It sounded like he was catching a flight. He said something about taking off in nine minutes.
Peter: What?
Ned: He was surrounded by a bunch of boxes.
Peter: Boxes? Its moving day. Its moving day! Its moving day! Hes gonna rob that plane! I gotta stop him!
[Inside Avengers Tower, Happy is talking on the phone, checking Tonys belongings.]
Happy: All right, wheels up in eight minutes. We just got to load Tonys old Hulkbuster armor, prototype for Caps new shield, and the Meging... the Meg... the... Thors magic belt.
[Peter drives down an empty road at a high speed.]
Ned: Okay, slow down. Youre getting close. Its on your right.
Peter: What?
Ned: Turn right! Turn right!
[Peter shoots his web to make a sharp turn. The car crashes into a streetlight and is almost overturned. It slides down the road on its side, then finally screeches to a stop.]
Ned: Peter, are you okay?
Peter: Yeah. Just keep trying to get through to Happy.
[Peter jumps out of the car.]
Ned: Its been an honor, Spider-Man.
[Suddenly, the lights come on. Reveal Ms. Warren standing behind Ned.]
Ms. Warren: What are you doing here? Theres a dance.
Ned: Uh...
[Ned hurriedly closes his laptop.]
Ned: (awkwardly) Im... looking... at... porn.
[We see a small window in the ceiling open. Peter hangs from his web and slowly descends into the building. The room is filled with computers and gadgets. Monitors showing Avengers Tower and the blueprint of Starks plane. Peter spots Vultures wing suit and goes deeper inside.]
Peter: Hey! Surprised?
Toomes: Oh, hey, Pete. I didnt hear you come in.
Peter: Its over. Ive got you.
Toomes: You know, I gotta tell you, Pete, I really, really admire your grit. I see why Liz likes you. I do. When you first came to the house, I wasnt sure. I thought, Really? But I get it now.
Peter: How could you do this to her?
Toomes: To her? Im not doing anything to her, Pete. Im doing this for her.
Peter: Huh, yeah.
[Peter shoots his web and glues Vultures left hand against the desk.]
Toomes: (sighs) Peter, youre young. You dont understand how the world works.
Peter: Yeah, but I understand that selling weapons to criminals is wrong.
Toomes: How do you think your buddy Stark paid for that tower? Or any of his little toys? Those people, Pete, those people up there, the rich and the powerful, they do whatever they want. Guys like us, like you and me, they dont care about us. We build their roads and we fight all their wars and everything, but they dont care about us. We have to pick up after em. We have to eat their table scraps. Thats how it is. I know you know what Im talking about, Peter.
Peter: Why are you telling me this?
Toomes: Because I want you to understand. And... I needed a little time to get her airborne.
[Vulture takes a folding knife out of his pocket. Vultures wing suit flies out from behind Peters back, which he avoids. In the confusion of the moment, Vulture cuts free from the web. The wing suit continues to attack Peter, but he avoids it with quick movements.]
Toomes: Im sorry, Peter.
Peter: What are you talking about? That thing hasnt even touched me yet.
Toomes: True. Then again, wasnt really trying to.
[Peter realizes that the wing suit wasnt attacking him; instead, it was chopping down the pillars. The building collapses, its wreckage raining down on Peter and burying him. Vulture picks up a walkie-talkie.]
Mason: Chief, theyre powering up engines.
Toomes: Okay.
Mason: Come on, come on, come on.
Toomes: Yeah, yeah.
[Vulture takes one last look of the pile of debris covering Peter, then walks away. He pauses to stare at the Avengers Tower. His wing suit attaches itself on his back.]
[The plane is about to take off from the Avengers Tower. Happy walks away from it.]
[We hear grunts and cries. Reveal Peter under the debris, still alive. He panics and takes off his mask.]
Peter: Oh, god. Okay, ready?
[He struggles to get up but fails.]
Peter: Hello! Hello! Please. Hey, hey, please. Im down here. Im down here. Im stuck. Im stuck. I cant move. I cant...
[Peter takes a moment to catch his breath and looks down at his reflection on a puddle. The Spider-Man mask in the puddle covers half the reflection, making it look as if Peter is wearing the Spider-Man mask on half his face.]
Tony Stark: If youre nothing without this suit, then you shouldnt have it.
[Once again, Peter tries to push the debris off his back.]
Peter: Come on, Peter. Come on, Spider-Man. Come on, Spider-Man. Come on, Spider-Man. Come on, Spider-Man!
[Peter finally frees himself from the debris and gets up amongst rubbles. He spots Vulture perching on top of a stripped billboard.]
[The plane takes off from Avengers Tower.]
[Mason is sitting in a control room.]
Mason: Launch for intercept. Green light. Green light.
Toomes: Oh, yeah.
[Vulture spreads his wings and prepares for takeoff. Peter shoots his web and swings onto the billboard, but narrowly misses Vulture, who flies away. Spider-Man shoots his web directly at Vulture.]
Tech: Retro-reflective panels engaged.
[The outer panels of the plane light up and mirror the New York City. Vulture goes after the plane.]
Toomes: Got a visual on the plane, feeling a little resistance.
Mason: Its probably just a drag on the new turbines.
[Vulture checks behind him but misses Spider-Man, who is hanging from a web attached to his back.]
Peter: Ah! Whoa!
[As Vulture goes higher and higher up, the night view of New York City gets smaller and smaller under Peters feet.]
Mason: Look out for the cloaking cameras. Stay in the blind spots.
[Vulture flies to the bottom of the plane and holds on. Peter bumps into the plane a few times, but manages to grab onto it.]
Peter: Oh, my god! Oh, my god!
Mason: Deploy high-altitude vacuum seal.
Toomes: This better work, Mason.
[The wing suit wraps around Vulture like a shell.]
Mason: Trust me, boss. Even one of those boxes and we are set for life.
Toomes: Yeah.
[Vulture puts the matter phase shifter on the plane, creating a small rectangular window, and moves inside. Peter tries to follow Vulture, but loses his grip and almost falls off the plane.]
Peter: Hey! Ah! Whew.
Mason: You have thirty seconds to get to the cockpit and override their security.
[Vulture walks to the front and rips out the door. The cockpit is empty. Outside, we see a blown-up image of Spider-Man crawling down the plane. He must have been caught the cloaking cameras. He approaches the wing suit and tries to open it. Vulture connects a device to the plane.]
Toomes: Cloning transponder signal.
Mason: Launching decoy drone.
[A small drone is launched out from the wing suit, startling Peter.]
Toomes: Entering new coordinates.
[Vulture manipulates the cockpit dashboard, piloting the plane off track.]
[A computer monitor displays the flight course in Avengers Tower.]
Happy: Good, so its on its way?
Tech: Yes, sir, right on course.
Happy: Okay, thank you. All right.
[The tech takes the laptop and leaves the almost-empty room.]
[Peter is still struggling to open the wing suit. Inside the plane, Vulture finds the boxes and takes off his mask.]
Toomes: Hot dog.
[Vulture opens one box after another. Rows and rows of Chitauri guns, arc reactors, etc. He takes out an Iron Man mask and throws it on the floor. Peter kicks Vultures wing suit and pushes it aside a bit. The air pressure inside the cabin drops, activating the alarm. Vulture checks an external monitor and realizes that Peter has followed him. He growls in anger.]
[Vulture comes out and puts on his wing suit. Peter tries to hang onto the airplane.]
Peter: Just a typical homecoming on the outside of an invisible jet... Fighting my girlfriends dad.
[Vulture comes at him and takes out panels right above his head. Peter shoots his web at Vulture. Peter is now suspended in air, one hand holding onto the web sticking to the plane, another hand holding onto the web glued to Vulture. The webs snap off and Peter is sucked in towards the engines.]
Peter: Oh, god!
[He shoots his web to stop the propellers. Vulture, who was also dragged to the engines, escapes death, but his wing suit is a bit damaged. Hanging onto propeller blades laced with spiderweb, Peter sighs in relief.]
Peter: Whew. I cant believe that worked.
[Suddenly, the propeller falls off. Peter avoids the crisis by holding onto the plane and kicking the propeller off his body. Vulture flies back and attacks Peter. Peter avoids them, but Vulture keeps coming at him. The impact sets one of the engines on fire. Peter clings onto the side of the engine with a thin strand of web.]
Mason: Chief, chief, theyre losing altitude. Get out of there.
Toomes: Im not going home empty-handed.
[Vulture sets to break open the ceiling of the plane. Still hanging from the engine, Peter sees the plane flying straight at the city.]
Peter: Oh, my god.
[Peter shoots his web at the right wing of the plane and pulls on it to change the planes direction. On the streets, passersby watch the plane flying overhead. Vulture tears open the ceiling and holds a box in his claws.]
Mason: Get out of there! What are you doing?
[Peter continues to struggle with the plane.]
Peter: Please turn! Please turn!
[The plane narrowly misses crashing into the city and heads toward Coney Island. Instead of escaping, Vulture tries to hold onto a box.]
[Happy, sitting comfortably in a chair, jumps up. He looks out and sees Tonys plane flying straight at Coney Island.]
[The plane hits a ride and crash-lands on the beach of Coney Island. Peter loses hold of the plane and rolls down the beach. Everything is consumed in smoke and flames. Peter slowly gets up and takes off his mask. His ears are ringing. He has just staggered up to his feet when, suddenly, Vulture flies toward him and attacks him. Sparks fly from Vultures wings; it is clear that he has suffered some serious damage, too.]
Toomes: Hey, Pedro.
[Vulture continues to attack Peter. Peter shoots his web, but misses and gets pinned to the ground like a bird of prey. He screams as Vulture grabs him tightly with his claws and rains down punches at him. When Peter grabs Vultures fist to prevent another blow, Vulture flies up and lets go of him. Peter avoids serious injury by shooting a strand of web and holding on to Vulture, but Vulture cuts it off and throws him to the ground. He then slams Peter into the ground a few times. Peter flips onto his back in a sluggish way, then looks up at Vulture, who picks him up by the hood of his Spider-Man costume. Vulture is holding Peter there, studying his limp body, when he spots a crate.]
Toomes: Bingo.
[Vulture lets go of Peter, takes his goggles off, and grabs the crateful of arc reactors. Sparks rain down from his wing suit when he tries to lift the crate, but Vulture does not stop.]
Peter: Your wing suit. Your wing suits gonna explode!
[Lifting his weary arm, Peter shoots a strand of web at the crate and pulls with all his might. A tug of war ensues.]
Toomes: Time to go home, Pete.
Peter: Im trying to save you!
[Vulture cuts the web with his wing and tries to fly off. Peter presses the button on his web shooter, but it doesnt work. He looks up to see the wing suit failing and covers his head. Vulture drops to the ground along with his wing suit. An explosion consumes him.]
Peter: No.
[Peter struggles up and runs into the flames. He spots Toomes and tries to lift the wing suit off him, but screams as he makes contact with hot metal. However, he doesnt give up. He picks the wing suit up, finds Toomes, and carries him away from the flames. Peter lays Toomes down on the beach. Wheezing and coughing from the smoke, Toomes looks up at Peter, who returns his gaze.]
[The flames have died out a little. A search party is scouring the beach. Happy finds Vulture tied to a pile of crates with spiderweb. A note is attached beside him: FOUND FLYING VULTURE GUY. SPIDER-MAN. P.S. SORRY ABOUT YOUR PLANE. Happy raises his head and looks around as if searching for someone.]
[Fire engines pass by the Cyclone. Peter is sitting on top of it. He closes his eyes, wounded and weary.]
[Midtown High. Students are taking down a homecoming banner. Below it, Ned and Peter walk down the corridor.]
Ned: It looked so insane. That whole... Like, it was just crazy. He, he was just like, Zzzz, and you were like, Ah!
Peter: Shh.
Ned: And then I just hit him with the pew. It was so, oh, my god.
Peter: You saved me. It was awesome.
[Peter spots Liz at the end of the corridor. Her mom is walking beside her with a box full of her belongings. Betty runs to Liz and hugs her. Peter runs toward them.]
Peter: Hey, Liz!
Betty: Im gonna miss you.
Liz: Bye.
Peter: Liz.
[Liz waits for Peter, wiping tears off her face.]
Peter: Liz, look. Im so sorry.
Liz: You say that a lot. What are you sorry for this time?
[When Peter fails to answer:]
Liz: The dance? That was a pretty crappy thing to do.
Peter: Well, yeah, but I... I mean, your dad... I cant imagine what youre going through. If theres anything I can do to help...
Liz: (fighting tears) I guess were moving to Oregon. Mom says its nice there, so thats cool. Anyways, Dad doesnt want us here during the trial, so...
Peter: Liz, I... I...
Liz: Bye, Peter. Whatevers going on with you, I hope you figure it out.
[Liz leaves the school with her mother. Peter watches her go.]
[In the library, Mr. Harrington brings the Decathlon trophy to a table of students.]
Mr. Harrington: Congratulations, Decathlon national champions.
Decathlon Team: (clapping) Yeah!
Mr. Harrington: Im gonna have to put this back in the trophy case soon, but just for motivation right now at this practice. Im a little ahead of the game, but we will need a new team captain next year. So Im appointing Michelle.
[The students turn to Michelle and clap.]
Decathlon Team: Yeah!
Michelle: Uh, thank you. My friends call me M.J.
Ned: I thought you didnt have any friends.
Michelle: I didnt.
[Peters cell phone vibrates. He picks the broken phone up and reads a message from an unknown number: Go to the bathroom.]
Peter: I... I gotta go.
Michelle: Hey, where you going?
[Peter freezes as he thinks of an excuse. Michelle stares at him, eyes filled with suspicion.]
Michelle: What are you hiding, Peter?
[Peters lips open, but no sound comes out. Suddenly, a grin breaks out on Michelles face.]
Michelle: Im just kidding. I dont care. Bye. (to Decathlon team) All right, so we should run some drills.
Ned: Yeah.
[Michelle watches with curious eyes as Peter stands to leave.]
[Peter rounds the corner and finds Happy waiting for him in the bathroom.]
Peter: Hey, Happy. What, uh... What are you doing here?
Happy: I really owe you one. I dont know what I would do without this job. I mean, before I met Tony-
[A toilet flushes and cuts him off. They awkwardly stand there as Tiny McKeever comes out, washes his hands, wipes them, and leaves the bathroom, throwing a long, confused glance at them. Finally:]
Peter: So, uh, how long you been here?
Happy: Long enough to be awkward. Boss wants to see you.
Peter: (whispers) Is he here too?
Happy: In the toilet? No, hes upstate.
Peter: Upstate? Like, upstate-upstate?
Happy: Yeah, lets go.
[Inside Happy's car. Dashboard display says: You may take your hands off the steering wheel.]
Happy: Take a look. Its pretty impressive, huh?
[Outside the window, we see the New Avengers Facility.]
Happy: They just finished remodeling the whole thing.
[Peter studies the facility with an awed expression. We see the reflection of a Quinjet taking off.]
[Inside the compound, Peter watches a Quinjet fly off with a huge grin.]
Happy: You dont see that every day.
[Tony approaches them.]
Tony Stark: Oh, there they are. How was the ride up?
Happy: Good.
Tony Stark: Give me a minute with the kid.
Happy: Seriously?
Tony Stark: Yeah. I gotta talk to the kid.
Happy: Ill be close behind.
Tony Stark: How about a loose follow? All right? Boundaries are good.
[Tony playfully punches Peter in the shoulder, then puts an arm around him.]
Tony Stark: Sorry I took your suit. I mean, you had it coming. Actually, it turns out it was the perfect sort of tough-love moment that you needed, right? To urge you on, right? Wouldnt you think? Dont you think?
Peter: Yeah, yeah, I guess.
Tony Stark: Lets just say it was.
[Tony sighs and continues leading Peter towards a door.]
Peter: Mr. Stark, I really-
Tony Stark: You screwed the pooch hard. Big time. But then you did the right thing. Took the dog to the free clinic, you raised the hybrid puppies... All right, not my best analogy. (beat) I was wrong about you. I think, with a little more mentoring, you could be a real asset to the team.
Peter: To the... To the team?
Tony Stark: Yeah. Anyway... (points at a door) Theres about fifty reporters behind that door. Real ones, not bloggers.
[He presses some buttons on his watch and a secret compartment in the wall opens, revealing a brand new Spider-Man suit, the Iron Spider Armor.]
Tony Stark: When youre ready... Why dont you try that on? And Ill introduce the world to the newest official member of the Avengers: Spider-Man.
Peter: I...
[Peter chuckles, amazed.]
Tony Stark: Yeah. Give that a look.
[Peter continues to admire the Iron Spider Armor.]
Tony Stark: So, after the press conference, Happy will show you to your room, your new quarters. (to Happy) Wheres he between? Hes next to Vision?
Happy: Yeah, Visions not big on doors.
Tony Stark: Its fun.
Happy: Or walls.
Tony Stark: (to Peter) Youll fit right in.
[Peter hesitates for a moment, then turns to Tony.]
Peter: Thank you, Mr. Stark. But Im good.
Tony Stark: Youre good? Good? How are you good?
Peter: Well, I mean, Im... Id rather just stay on the ground for a little while. Friendly neighborhood Spider-Man. Somebodys got to look out for the little guy, right?
[Tony takes off his sunglasses and stares into Peters eyes.]
Tony Stark: You turning me down? You better think about this. (pointing at the new Spider-Man suit) Look at that. Look at me. Last chance, yes or no?
Peter: No.
Tony Stark: Okay. Its kind of a Springsteen-y, working class hero vibe that I dig. Uh, Happy will take you home. Yeah?
Happy: Yeah. (to Peter) Mind waiting in the car? I need a minute.
Peter: Thank you, Mr. Stark.
Tony Stark: Yes, Mr. Parker. Very well.
[Tony and Peter shake hands.]
Peter: See you around.
Tony Stark: Okay.
[Peter starts to leave with a spring in his step, but then slows to a stop and turns to Tony, who is putting the Iron Spider Armor away with a tap on his watch.]
Peter: That was a test, right? Theres, uh, nobody back there?
Tony Stark: Yes, you passed. All right, skedaddle there, young buck.
Peter: Thank you, Mr. Stark. Thank you.
Tony Stark: Yeah, thank you.
[Peter walks away.]
Happy: Told you hes a good kid.
[Tony shrugs. A door behind him opens, revealing a room full of reporters. We can hear their excited murmurs. Pepper comes out with a somewhat frenzied, annoyed look when she realizes that Peter is not there.]
Pepper: Wheres the kid?
Happy: He left.
Pepper: Everybodys waiting.
Tony Stark: You know what? He actually made a really mature choice. It just surprised the heck out of us.
Pepper: Did you guys screw this up?
Tony Stark: (points at Happy) He told the kid to go wait in the car.
Pepper: Are you kidding me? I have a room full of people in there waiting for some big announcement. What am I gonna tell them?
Tony Stark: Think of something. How about, um... Hap, you still got that ring?
Happy: Do I... I, uh...
[Happy makes a show of patting his pockets to find the ring.]
Tony Stark: The engagement ring?
Happy: Are you kidding? Ive been carrying this since 2008.
[He holds up the engagement ring. Beat, then:]
Tony Stark: Okay.
Pepper: I think I can think of something better than that.
Tony Stark: Well, it would buy us a little time.
[Pepper kisses Tony with a smile on her lips.]
Tony Stark: Like we need time.
Pepper: I cant believe you have that thing in your pocket.
[She starts to walk back towards the conference room.]
Tony Stark: Want me to get the door for you, hon?
Pepper: I got it.
[Tony quickly follows her, catching the ring that Happy throws to him.]
[Peter walks out of the facility. A smile blossoms on his face.]
Peter: Aunt May, did you do dinner already?
[Peter enters his apartment and throws his keys on a table. He stops when he finds a brown paper bag that says This belongs to you. -TS sitting on his bed. Taking out his earphones, Peter calls out:]
Peter: May?
[No answer. Peter gets into his Spider-Man suit, then pulls off the mask. Reveal May standing in the doorway behind him.]
May: What the fu-!?
[Prison. Toomes walks through a cell block. Mac Gargan, the Scorpion, approaches.]
Gargan: Look who it is! What are the odds you and Id end up in the same summer camp? Relax. This? (points at the scar on his forehead) Its not on you. Its on our, uh... little spider friend. Ive got some boys on the outside who would love to meet him. You know, take a picture, slice his throat, put his head in a dryer. And I heard a rumor... you know who he is.
[Toomes smiles almost imperceptibly.]
Toomes: If I knew who he was, hed already be dead.
[Gargan stares at him with one eye severely bloodshot.]
Guard: Toomes, your familys here.
[Toomes walks away, smiling.]
An empty white screen. Captain America enters frame in his uniform.
Steve: Hi. Im Captain America. Here to talk to you about one of the most valuable traits a soldier or student can have. Patience. Sometimes patience is the key to victory. Sometimes it leads to very little. It seems like its not worth it. And you wonder why you waited so long for something so disappointing.
[He uncomfortably glares at someone off-screen.]
Steve: How many more of these?[Marvel Opening Credits]
[radio transmission sound]
[Asgardian PA]: This is the Asgardian refugee vessel Statesman! We are under assault, I repeat, we are under assault  The engines are dead, life support failing! Requesting aid from any vessel within range... We are 22 jump points out of Asgard. Our crew is made up of Asgardian families, we have very few soldiers here! This is not a war craft, I repeat, this is not a war craft!
[Inside the ship, Ebony Maw walks among the bodies of dead Asgardians. He steps over them as he speaks with no mind, as if they were scattered pieces of dirty clothing on a bedroom floor.]
Ebony Maw: Hear me, and rejoice. You have had the privilege of being saved by the Great Titan. You may think this is suffering. No... It is salvation. Universal scales tip toward balance because of your sacrifice. Smile... For even in death, you have become Children of Thanos.
[Loki is seen with the Black Order. He watches Thanos.]
Thanos: [Looking out the large window we saw at the end of Thor: Ragnarok.] I know what it's like to lose. To feel so desperately that you're right... yet to fail, nonetheless. [grabs Thor by the head.] It's frightening. Turns the legs to jelly. I ask you, to what end? Dread it. Run from it. Destiny arrives all the same. And now, it's here. Or should I say... I AM.
[Thanos holds up his hand to reveal the Infinity Gauntlet, which already hosts the Power Stone.]
Thor: [exhaustedly spitting blood from his mouth] You talk too much.
Thanos: [to Loki] The Tesseract, or your brother's head. I assume you have a preference.
Loki: Oh, I do. Kill away!
[Thanos sets the gauntlet on Thor's temple. The power stone glows brightly. Thor suffers in pain.]
Loki: [cringing and looking away from his brother's pain and has just thought for a few seconds] ALRIGHT, STOP!
Thor: We don't have the Tesseract. It was destroyed on Asgard.
[Loki glances at Thor like he knows something he doesn't. He lifts his right hand into the air and the Tesseract reveals itself]
Thor: You really are the worst, brother.
Loki: [While holding the Tesseract out to Thanos and advancing] I assure you, brother, the Sun will shine on us again.
Thanos: Your optimism is misplaced, Asgardian.
Loki: Well, for one thing: I'm not Asgardian. And for another... We have a Hulk.
[Loki dives out of the way as Hulk emerges and fights Thanos. Punches are exchanged and Thanos is forced into the wall of the ship. Maw stops Black Dwarf from interfering.]
Ebony Maw: Let him have his fun.
[Thanos defeats Hulk and dumps him to the ground. Thor tries to interfere but Ebony Maw binds him to the ground.]
Heimdall: Allfathers... let the dark magic flow through me one last... time.
[Heimdall summons the Bifrost, which carries Hulk away.]
Thanos: That was a mistake.
[Thanos stabs Heimdall through the heart.]
Thor: NO!!! You're going to die for that!
[Ebony Maw shuts Thor's mouth]
Ebony Maw: Shhhh. [Holding the Tesseract, on one knee] My humble personage... bows before your grandeur. No other being has ever had the might, nay the nobility, to wield not one, but two Infinity Stones. The universe lies within your grasp.
[Thanos crushes the Tesseract, revealing the Space Stone. He places it on the gauntlet.]
Thanos: There are two more Stones on Earth. Find them, my children, and bring them to me on Titan.
Proxima Midnight: Father, we will not fail you.
Loki: [Emerging from a separate section of the ship] If I might, interject... If you're going to Earth, you might want a guide. I do have a bit of experience in that arena.
Thanos: If you consider failure experience...
Loki: I consider experience, experience. Almighty Thanos. I, Loki, Prince of Asgard... Odinson... The rightful King of Jotunheim, God of Mischief, do hereby pledge to you, my undying fidelity.
[Thor squints and notices a dagger in Loki's hand. Loki attempts to stab Thanos, but fails.]
Thanos: Undying. You should choose your words more carefully.
[Thanos tightens his hold around Loki's neck. He makes eye contact with Thor before he increases his force on Loki's neck.]
Loki: [Giving up on fighting against Thanos] You... will never be... a god. [Thanos snaps Loki's neck, killing him]
Thanos: No resurrections this time.
[Thanos teleports away with the Black Order.]
Thor: No... Loki...
[Thor is released from his binds. He crawls over to Loki's body- which, unlike in the Dark World, has not returned to it's Jotun form- and lays his head down on Loki's chest, shedding tears for all that he has lost. The ship explodes. The Bifrost sends Hulk across space to Earth.]
[Sanctum Sanctorum]
Doctor Strange: Seriously? You don't have any money?
Wong: Attachment to the material is detachment from the spiritual.
Doctor Strange: I'll tell the guys at the deli. Maybe they'll make you a metaphysical Ham on Rye.
Wong: Oh, wait, wait, wait, I think I have 200.
Doctor Strange: Dollars?
Wong: Rupees.
Doctor Strange: Which is?
Wong: Uh, buck and a half.
Doctor Strange: What do you want?
Wong: I wouldn't say no to a Tuna Melt.
[Bruce crash-lands on the Sanctum stairs.]
Bruce Banner: Thanos is coming. He's coming...
Doctor Strange: [Sharing a look with Wong, now in his normal fighting attire] ... Who?
(Title Screen: Avengers: Infinity War)
Tony Stark: Slow down, slow down. I'm totally not kidding. Pepper Potts: [laughing slightly] You're totally rambling.
Tony Stark: No, I'm not.
Pepper Potts: Lost me.
Tony Stark: Look, you know how you're having a dream, and in the dream you gotta pee?
Pepper Potts: Yeah.
Tony Stark: Okay, and then you're like, Oh my god, there's no bathroom, what am I gonna do? Oh! Someone's watching. I'm gonna go in my pants.
Pepper Potts: Right. And then you wake up, and in real life you actually have to pee.
Tony Stark: Yes.
Pepper Potts: Yeah. Everybody has that.
Tony Stark: Right! That's the point I'm trying to make. Apropos of that, last night, I dreamt, we had a kid. So real. We named him after your eccentric uncle. Uh, what was his name?
Pepper Potts: [Nodding in understanding] Right.
Tony Stark: Morgan! Morgan.
Pepper Potts: So you woke up, and thought that we were...
Tony Stark: Expecting.
Pepper Potts: Yeah.
Tony Stark: [Becoming excited] Yes?
Pepper Potts: [Shaking her head} No.
Tony Stark: I had a dream about it. It was so real.
Pepper Potts: If you wanted to have a kid, you wouldn't have done that.
[Pepper points to Tony's chest attachment]
Tony Stark: I'm glad you brought this up, 'cause it's nothing. It's just a housing unit for nano particles.
Pepper Potts: It's not helping your case, OK?
Tony Stark: No, no, it's an attachment, it's not a-
Pepper Potts: {Insistently] You don't need that.
Tony Stark: I know. I had the surgery. I'm just trying to protect us. The future, us, and that's it. Just in case there's a monster in the closet, instead of, you know...
Pepper Potts: Shirts?
Tony Stark: You know me so well. You finish all my sentences.
Pepper Potts: You should have shirts in your closet.
Tony Stark: Yeah. You know what there should be? No more surprises. We're gonna have a nice dinner tonight. Show off this Harry Winston. Right? And we should have no more surprises. Ever. I should promise you.
Pepper Potts: Yes.
Tony Stark: I will. (Tony kisses Pepper.)
[Doctor Strange comes through a portal]
Doctor Strange: Tony Stark, I'm Doctor Stephen Strange. I need you to come with me. Oh, uh, congratulations on the wedding, by the way.
Tony Stark: I'm sorry, you giving out tickets or something?
Doctor Strange: We need your help. Look, it's not overselling to say that the fate of the universe is at stake.
Tony Stark: And who's we?
Bruce Banner: [Emerges behind Doctor Strange] Hey, Tony.
Tony Stark: [Looking surprised] Bruce.
Bruce Banner: Pepper.
Pepper Potts: Hi.
Tony Stark: You okay?
[Bruce gives Tony a hug, not answering. After everything he has been through, we understand.]
[Back at the Sanctum Sanctorum]
Wong: [Using magic to show the universe and five out of six Infinity Stones] From the dawn of the universe, there was nothing. Then, boom! The Big Bang sent six elemental crystals, hurdling across the virgin universe. These Infinity Stones each control an essential aspect of existence.
Doctor Strange: Space. Reality. Power. Soul. Mind. And Time.
[Dr. Strange opens the Eye of Agamotto, revealing the Time Stone.] Tony Stark: Tell me his name again. Bruce Banner: Thanos. He's a plague, Tony. He invades planets, he takes what he wants, he wipes out half the population. He sent Loki! The attack on New York, that's him! Tony Stark: [Speaking to himself] This is him...What's our timeline? Bruce Banner: No telling. He has the Power and Space Stones, that already makes him the strongest creature in the whole universe! If he gets his hands, on all six Stones, Tony... Doctor Strange: He can destroy life on a scale hither to undreamt of.
Tony Stark: [Leans against a cauldron, stretching casually] Did you seriously just say hither to undreamt of?
Doctor Strange: Are you seriously leaning on the Cauldron of the Cosmos?
Tony Stark: Is that what this is...?
[The Cloak of Levitation smacks Tony's arm.]
Tony Stark: [Looking offended] I'm going to allow that. If Thanos needs all six, why don't we just stick this one down the garbage disposal?
Doctor Strange: No can do.
Wong: We swore an oath to protect the Time Stone. With our lives.
Tony Stark: And I swore off dairy, but then, Ben & Jerry's named a flavor after me, so...
Doctor Strange: Stark Raving Hazelnuts.
Tony Stark: It's not bad.
Doctor Strange: A bit chalky.
Wong: A Hunka-Hulka Burning Fudge is our favorite.
Bruce Banner: That's a thing?
Tony Stark: Whatever. Point is: Things change.
Doctor Strange: Our oath to protect the Time Stone cannot change. This Stone may be the best chance we have against Thanos.
Tony Stark: And still conversely, it may also be his best chance against us.
Doctor Strange: Well, if we don't do our jobs.
Tony Stark: What is your job exactly, besides making balloon animals?
Doctor Strange: Protecting your reality, douchebag.
Bruce Banner: Okay, guys, can we quick cable this discussion right now? The fact is that we have the Stone. We know where it is. Vision is out there somewhere with the Mind Stone, and we have to find him now.
Tony Stark: [awkwardly] Yeah, that's the thing.
Bruce Banner: What do you mean?
Tony Stark: Two weeks ago, Vision turned off his transponder. He's offline.
Bruce Banner: What?! Tony, you lost another super bot?!
Tony Stark: I didn't lose him. He's more than that. He's evolving.
Doctor Strange: Who could find Vision, then?
Tony Stark: Shit. Probably Steve Rogers.
Doctor Strange: [sighing in exasperation] Oh, great.
Tony Stark: Maybe. But...
Bruce Banner: [missing the events of Civil War] Call him.
Tony Stark: It's not that easy. God, we haven't caught up in a spell, have we?
Bruce Banner: No.
Tony Stark: The Avengers broke up. We're toast.
Bruce Banner: Broke up? Like a band? Like The Beatles?
Tony Stark: Cap and I fell out hard. We're not on speaking terms.
Bruce Banner: Tony, listen to me. Thor's gone. Thanos is coming. It doesn't matter who you're talking to or not.
[Tony hesitates, before pulling out the cellular phone Steve mailed him, muttering flip phone'. It seems as though he brings it everywhere, always ready to call his lost friend. Before clicking Call, he pauses. He hears unusual sounds.]
Tony Stark: Say, Doc, you wouldn't happen to be moving your hair, would you?
Doctor Strange: [Trying to look up at one of his stray hairs fluttering] ... Not at the moment, no. [Tony looks at the opening on the ceiling and sees metal scraps flying by outside. He exits the Sanctum and scans the chaotic surroundings. He helps a woman up.]
Tony Stark: You okay?
[The woman ignores him and runs away. A car crashes in on a pole behind Tony.]
Tony Stark: Help him! Wong, Doc.
Bruce Banner: Go! Got it!
Tony Stark: [Putting on his sunglasses] F.R.I.D.A.Y., what am I looking at?
F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Not sure, I'm working on it.
Tony Stark: Hey! You might wanna put that Time Stone in your back pocket, Doc!
Doctor Strange: Might wanna use it.
[A huge circular ship is seen floating near Bleecker Street. On a bus, the hairs on Peter Parker's arms stand up. He looks out the window and sees the ship.]
Peter Parker: [Tapping his friend from the seat in front of him] Ned, hey. I need you to cause a distraction.
Ned Leeds: Holy shit! We're all gonna die! There's a spaceship!
[Peter Parker opens a window using his web shooter. He exits the bus. Students scramble to the windows to see the spaceship.]
Stan Lee: What's the matter with you kids? You've never seen a spaceship before?
[Peter Parker wears his Spider-Man mask and makes his way towards the ship.]
Tony Stark: F.R.I.D.A.Y., evac anyone south of 43rd Street, notify first responders.
F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Will do.
[Doctor Strange stops the ship's engine. The dust clears. Ebony Maw and Black Dwarf exit the ship.]
Ebony Maw: Hear me, and rejoice. You are about to die at the hands of the Children of Thanos. Be thankful, that your meaningless lives are now contributing to...
Tony Stark: I'm sorry, Earth is closed today. You better pack it up and get outta here.
Ebony Maw: [Looks at Strange] Stone keeper... Does this chattering animal speak for you?
Doctor Strange: Certainly not. I speak for myself. But you're trespassing in this city and on this planet.
Tony Stark: It means get lost Squidward!
Ebony Maw: He exhausts me. Bring me the Stone.
Tony Stark: Banner, you want a piece?
Bruce Banner: No, not really, but when do I ever get what I want?
Tony Stark: That's right.
[Bruce attempts to release the Hulk. Instead of Hulk coming out easily, the most that turns green is Bruce's neck]
Tony Stark: Been a while. Good to have you, buddy.
Bruce Banner: I just... I need to concentrate here for one second. Come on, come on, man.
Tony Stark: Where's your guy?
Bruce Banner: I don't know. We've sort been havin' a thing.
Tony Stark: There's no time for a thing.
Bruce Banner: I know.
Tony Stark: That's the thing right there. Let's go.
[Bruce gives out a loud grunt, but fails to release the Hulk.]
Tony Stark: {Glances at Strange] Dude, you're embarrassing me in front of the wizards.
Bruce Banner: Tony, I'm sorry. (STAMMERS) Either I can't or he won't-
Tony Stark: It's okay. Hey, stand down. [to Wong] Keep an eye on him. Thank you.
Wong: I have him.
Bruce Banner: Damn it.
[As Black Dwarf approaches the team, Stark dons his Iron Man suit. He defends himself and casts the Dwarf back to Maw, who dodges him.]
Bruce Banner: Where'd that come from?
Tony Stark: It's nano-tech. You like it? A little somet-
[Ebony Maw hurls Stark up and attacks the rest of the team. Wong summons a shield.]
Doctor Strange: Dr. Banner, if the rest of your green friend won't be joining us...
[Doctor Strange teleports Banner to the park. Stark returns and joins the fight.]
Tony Stark: Gotta get that stone outta here, now.
Doctor Strange: It stays with me.
Tony Stark: Exactly. Bye.
[Tony flies away but is cut off by Black Dwarf, sending him to the park.]
Bruce Banner: Tony, you okay? How we doing? Good? bad?
Tony Stark: Really, really good. Really good. Do you plan on helping out?
Bruce Banner: I'm trying. He won't come out.
[Black Dwarf arrives to the park. Throwing his hammer at Bruce.]
Tony Stark: Hammer. [Pushing Bruce out of the way]
[Tony's energy beam deflects off Black Dwarf's shield, slicing down trees. Bruce crawls under a fallen tree.]
Bruce Banner: [begins hitting himself]Come on, Hulk. What are you doing to me? Come out! Come out! Come out!
Hulk: No!
Bruce Banner: What do you mean, no?
[Stark is knocked down by Dwarf, but is shielded by Peter Parker.]
Peter Parker: Hey, man. What's up, Mr. Stark?
Tony Stark: Kid, where'd you come from?
Peter Parker: Field trip to MoMA.
[Black Dwarf grabs Parker and throws him away.]
Peter Parker: What is this guy's problem, Mr. Stark?
Tony Stark: He's from space. He came here to steal a necklace from a wizard.
[Wong and Doctor Strange are fighting against Maw. Maw lifts several bricks from the ground and turns them into sharp points. He sends them towards Wong and Strange. The two make portals and send them back towards Maw. Maw moves a car to protect himself, but one spike still hits his head, creating a cut. Wong is knocked back into rubble and a car, falling to the ground unconscious. Strange flies forward to fight Maw but is knocked back into a building, bricks trapping him]
Ebony Maw: Your powers are quaint. You must be popular with children.
[Maw tries to grab the amulet holding the Time Stone but jerks back when it burns his hand.]
Doctor Strange: It's a simple spell but quite unbreakable.
Ebony Maw: Then I'll take it off your corpse.
[Maw pulls Strange away from the building and throws him to the ground. Several wires leap around around different parts of Strange's body. One cord, is slowly tightening around his neck]
Doctor Strange: You'll find...removing a dead man's spell... Troublesome.
Ebony Maw: You'll only wish you were dead. [Strange falls unconscious and is Maw moves to grab him. The Cloak of Levitation flies Strange away} No!
Tony Stark: [As Strange passes through the park] Kid, that's the wizard. Get on it.
Peter Parker: On it!
(Peter chases Strange through Manhattan, Maw attacks him, throwing him through a billboard.)
Peter Parker: Not cool!
(Peter attempts to anchor Strange to a lamppost, but Maw breaks the lamppost, sending Peter and Strange up in the ship's tractor beam.)
Peter Parker: Mr. Stark? I'm being beamed up.
Tony Stark: Hang on, kid. [As Black Dwarf jumps towards Tony he is sent through a portal. Tony turns towards Wong, the one who made the portal} Wong, you're invited to my wedding. [Tony begins to fly towards the large ship] Give me a little juice, F.R.I.D.A.Y. [Tony's feet thrusters turn morph together into a larger one] Unlock 17-A. [a pod jettisons from the New Avengers Facility] Pete, you gotta let go. I'm gonna catch you.
Peter Parker: But you said save the wizard! [Peter, based on lack of oxygen, pulls off his mask] I can't breathe!
Tony Stark: You're too high up. You're running out of air.
Peter Parker: Yeah! That makes sense.
[Peter passes out, free-falling, but not before the pod reaches him. It attaches itself to him, becoming the Iron Spider suit. Now being able to breathe, Peter lands on a bottom part of the ship, standing up heroically.]
Peter Parker: Mr. Stark, it smells like a new car in here!
Tony Stark: Happy trails, kid. F.R.I.D.A.Y, send him home.
F.R.I.D.A.Y: Yup.
[A large parachute extends from the new suit, sending Peter spiraling back to Earth.]
Peter Parker: Oh, come on!
[Tony boards the ship, trying to get to the main bay and keep the Time Stone out of MAW's hands.]
F.R.I.D.A.Y: Boss, incoming call from Miss Potts.
Pepper Potts: Tony? Oh, my God. Are you all right? What's going on?
Tony Stark: Yeah, I'm fine. I just think we might have to push our 8:30 res.
Pepper Potts: Why?
Tony Stark: [While looking at the ship around him] Just 'cause I'll... probably not make it back for awhile.
Pepper Potts: Tell me you're not on that ship.
Tony Stark: Yeah.
Pepper Potts: God, no. Please tell me you're not on that ship.
Tony Stark: Honey, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I don't know what to say.
Pepper Potts: Come back here, Tony. I swear to God...
Tony Stark: Pep...
Pepper Potts: Come back here right now! Come back!
F.R.I.D.A.Y: Boss, we're losing her. I'm going, too...
[Peter Parker is revealed to have managed to stick to the outside of the ship, and is crawling inside an airlock.]
Peter Parker: Oh my God. I should have stayed on the bus.
(Meanwhile, on EARTH)
Bruce Banner: Where you going?
Wong: The Time Stone's been taken. The Sanctum remains unguarded. What will you do?
Bruce Banner: [Holding Rogers' cell phone] I'm gonna make a call.
[Wong nods in understanding and closes the portal, not to be seen again for the rest of the movie]
(SPACE: Guardians of the Galaxy)
[The Guardians of the Galaxy are traveling to investigate a distress call to the tune of Rubberband Man'.]
Peter Quill: (While dancing to the song) Sing it, Drax!
(Drax is snoring with his mouth open from his seat in front of Quill.)
Rocket: (After yawning briefly) Why are we doing this again?
Gamora: (In annoyance) It's a distress signal, Rocket. Someone could be dying.
Rocket: I get that, but why are we doing it?
Peter Quill: Cause we're nice. And maybe whoever it is will give us a little cheddar cheese for our help.
Gamora: Which isn't the point.
Peter Quill: (Points at Gamora) Which isn't the point... I mean... If he doesn't pony up...
Rocket: We'll take his ship.
Peter Quill: B-b-b-bingo!
Mantis: (Adjusting a few things on the ship) We are arriving.
Peter Quill: All right, Guardians. Don't forget, this might be dangerous, so let's put on our mean faces. (Looks back at Groot is playing a video game) Groot, put that thing away. Now. I don't wanna tell you again. Groot.
Groot: (Now a teenager and playing a handheld gaming device) [in a mocking tone] I am Groot!
Peter Quill: Whoa!
Rocket: Language!
Gamora: Hey!
Drax: Wow.
Peter Quill: You got some acorns on you, kid.
Rocket: Ever since you got your little sap, you're a total d-hole. Keep it up, and I'm gonna smash that thing to pieces!
(Groot rolls his eyes. As Rocket finishes what he is saying Thanos' carnage is revealed, revealing the distress signal to be the one from the Asgardian vessel at the beginning of the movie. The Guardians find the Asgardians floating dead in space from the destruction by Thanos.)
Mantis: What happened?
Rocket: Looks like we're not getting paid.
(With a thump, Thor's body is plastered to the hull of the ship.)
Rocket: (Waving his hands) Wipers! Wipers! Get it off.
(THOR's eye opens- cut to the GUARDIANS tending to the still unconscious Thor inside the ship)
Peter Quill: How the hell is this dude still alive?
Drax: He is not a dude. You're a dude. This... This is a man. A handsome, muscular man.
Peter Quill: I'm muscular.
Rocket: Who are you kidding, Quill? You're one sandwich away from fat.
Peter Quill: Yeah, right.
Drax: It's true. You have gained a little weight... (Drax motions to his chin and belly)
Peter Quill: What? Gamora, do you think I'm...
Mantis: He is anxious. Angry. He feels tremendous loss and guilt.
Drax: It's like a pirate had a baby with an angel.
Peter Quill: Wow. This is a real wake-up call for me. Okay. I'm gonna get a Bowflex. I'm gonna commit. I'm gonna get some dumbbells.
Rocket: You know you can't eat dumbbells, right?
Gamora: It's like his muscles are made of Cotati metal fibers.
Peter Quill: Stop massaging his muscles. Wake him up.
Mantis: Wake.
(Thor awakens, frightening Mantis. He does not recognize them.)
Thor: Who the hell are you guys?
[Cut to later as the Guardians stand around Thor eating soup]
Gamora: The entire time I knew Thanos, he only ever had one goal: To bring balance to the Universe by wiping out half of all life. He used to kill people planet by planet, massacre by massacre...
Drax: Including my own.
Gamora: If he gets all six Infinity Stones, he can do it with the snap of his fingers, like this. (she snaps her fingers)
Thor: You seem to know a great deal about Thanos.
Drax: Gamora... is the daughter of Thanos.
Thor: Your father killed my brother.
Peter Quill: Oh, boy. Stepfather. Technically, she hates him as much as you do. (Thor softens a bit.)
Thor: Families can be tough. Look. Before my father died, he told me I had a half-sister...that he imprisoned in Hel. Then she returned home, and stabbed me in the eye, so... I had to kill her. It's life, isn't it, I guess. Goes round and round and... I feel your pain.
Peter Quill: And I feel your pain, as well. I mean it's not a competition, but I've been through a lot. My father killed my mother, then I had to kill my father. And that was hard. Probably even harder than having to kill a sister. Plus, I, came out of it with both of my eyes-
Thor: I need a hammer, not a spoon... (he attempts to fiddle with machinery) How do I open this thing? Is there some sort of a four-digit code maybe... Maybe a birth date or something...
Peter Quill: What are you doing?
Thor: Taking your pod.
Peter Quill: No, you're not! (mimics THOR's accent) You'll not, be taking our pod today, sir.
Rocket: Quill. Are you making your voice deeper?
Peter Quill: No.
Drax: You are. You're imitating the god-man. It's weird.
Peter Quill: No I'm not.
Mantis: He just did it again!
Peter Quill: This is my voice!
Thor: (Thor stepping closer to Quill) Are you mocking me?
Peter Quill: Are you mocking me?
Thor: Stop it. You did it again.
Peter Quill: He's trying to copy me.
Thor: Would you stop doing that? He's doing it first.
Gamora: Enough! We need to stop Thanos. Which means we need to find out where he's going next.
Thor: Knowhere.
Mantis: He must be going somewhere.
Peter Quill: No. Knowhere? It's a place. We've been there. It sucks. Excuse me, that's our food. (To Thor as he rummages through there food stores)
Thor: Not anymore.
Gamora: Thor... Why would he go to Knowhere?
Thor: Because for years, the Reality Stone has been safely stored, there with a man we call the Collector.
Peter Quill: If it's with the Collector, then it's not safe. Only an idiot would give that man a stone.
Thor: Or a genius.
Gamora: (To Thor) How do you know he's not going for one of the other Stones?
Thor: There's six stones out there. Thanos already has the Power Stone because he stole it last week, when he decimated Xandar. He stole the Space Stone from me when he destroyed my ship and slaughtered half my people. The Time and Mind Stones are safe on Earth. They're with the Avengers.
Peter Quill: The Avengers?
Thor: They're Earth's Mightiest Heroes.
Mantis: Like Kevin Bacon?
Thor: ...He may be on the team. I don't know. Haven't been there in a while. As for the Soul Stone, well, no one's ever seen that. No one even knows where it is. Therefore, Thanos can't get it. Therefore, he's going to Knowhere. Hence, he'll be getting the Reality Stone. You're welcome.
Gamora: Then we have to go to Knowhere now.
Thor: Wrong. Where we have to go, is Nidavellir.
Drax: That's a made up word.
Thor: All words are made up.
Rocket: Nidavellir is real? (Climbing on to the table) Seriously? I mean, that place is a legend. They make the most powerful, horrific weapons to ever torment the Universe. I would very much like to go there, please.
Thor: The rabbit is correct, and clearly the smartest among you.
Rocket: Rabbit?
Thor: Only Eitri the dwarf king can make me the weapon I need. (To ROCKET) I assume you're the captain, sir?
Rocket: You're very perceptive.
Thor: You seem like a noble leader. Will you join me on my quest to Nidavellir?
Rocket: Lemme just ask the captain. Wait a second, it's me! Yeah, I'll go.
Thor: Wonderful.
Peter Quill: Except that I'm the captain.
Rocket: Quiet!
Peter Quill: And that's my backpack.
Rocket: Quill, sit down.
Peter Quill: (To Thor) Look, this is my ship. And I'm not going to... Wait, what kind of weapon are we talking about here?
Thor: The Thanos killing kind.
Peter Quill: Don't you think that we should all have a weapon like that?
Thor: No. You simply lack the strength to wield them. Your bodies will crumble as your minds collapse into the madness.
Rocket: Is it weird that I wanna do it even more now?
Thor: A little bit. Yeah.
Gamora: If we don't go to Knowhere and Thanos retrieves another stone, he'll be too powerful to stop.
Thor: He already is.
Rocket: I got it figured out. We got two ships, and a large assortment of morons. So me and Groot will go with the pirate-angel here, and the morons will go to Knowhere to try and stop Thanos. Cool? Cool.
Thor: So cool.
Peter Quill: (To Rocket) For the record... I know that you're only going with him because it's where Thanos isn't.
Rocket: You know, Quill, you shouldn't talk that way to your captain. (As he enters the pod) Come on, Groot. Put that game down. You'll rot your brain.
Thor: I bid you farewell and good luck, morons. Bye.
[Cut to Scotland, where VISION and WANDA MAXIMOFF share an apartment. WANDA is in bed while VISION, in a human glamour, watches out a window.]
Vision: (Holding his hand to the Mind Stone in pain)
Wanda Maximoff: Vis? Is it the stone again?
Vision: It's as if it's speaking to me.
Wanda Maximoff: What does it say?
Vision: I don't... I don't know. But something... Tell me what you feel.
(WANDA presses her hand to the MIND STONE. She seems confused.)
Wanda Maximoff: I just feel you.
(VISION takes WANDA'S hand and kisses it. Then they kiss. Cut to later, where the two are going on a stroll.)
Wanda Maximoff: So there's a 10 AM to Glasgow to give us more time together before you went back.
Vision: What if I miss that train?
Wanda Maximoff: There is an 11.
Vision: What if I missed all the trains? What if this time, I didn't go back?
Wanda Maximoff: You gave Stark your word.
Vision: I'd rather give it to you.
Wanda Maximoff: There are people who are expecting me too, you know. We both made promises.
Vision: Not to each other. Wanda... For two years, we've stolen these moments, trying to see if this could work. And... I don't know. You know what, I'm just gonna speak for myself.  I, I... I think...
Wanda Maximoff: It works.
Vision: It works.
Vision: Then stay. Stay with me. (a pause) Or not. If I'm overstepping...
(Suddenly, WANDA MAXIMOFF notices the TV in a nearby bar announcing the invasion of New York, and the disappearance of TONY STARK.)
Wanda Maximoff: What are they?
Vision: What the stone was warning me about. I have to go.
Wanda Maximoff: No. Vision. If that's true... Then maybe going isn't the best idea.
Vision: Wanda, I... (CORVUS GLAIVE appears suddenly behind vision, stabbing him through the back.)
Wanda Maximoff: Vision!
(PROXIMA MIDNIGHT attacks Wanda from behind, and knocks her away. CORVUS GLAIVE pins Vision down using his weapon {a glaive} in an attempt to extract the mind stone from Vision's head. Wanda blasts both of them away, then propels Vision and herself into a nearby courtyard where they rest in an alleyway.)
Vision: The blade. It stopped me from phasing.
Wanda Maximoff: Is that even possible?
Vision: It isn't supposed to be. My systems are failing. I'm beginning to think... we should have stayed in bed.
(CORVUS GLAIVE suddenly arrives, knocking Wanda aside and grabbing Vision)
Wanda Maximoff: Vis!
(CORVUS flies away with Vision, pinning him against a wall. Meanwhile, PROXIMA engages Wanda and they begin to fight.)
Corvus Glaive: (to VISION) Give up the Stone, and she lives.
(Vision flies with CORVUS to the roof of what appears to be a church. PROXIMA and Wanda are still fighting below. Vision shoots a beam from the mind stone at CORVUS, who uses his glaive to deflect it back at Vision, causing him to slam into the wall behind him.)
(Down below, Wanda hears a cry from Vision. Finally knocking PROXIMA away with her magic, Wanda then flies up to the roof where GLAIVE has pinned Vision and is again attempting to remove the mind stone. She casts a bolt of magic which throws him back through the wall and down a shaft.)
Wanda Maximoff: Hands off.
(Wanda then uses her magic to propel her and Vision away. Below, PROXIMA, who has recovered, shoots a bolt from her weapon, causing them to fall from the air and down through the roof of a train station beneath them. Wanda crawls over to Vision.)
Wanda Maximoff: Come on. Come on. Come on, you gotta get up. You gotta get up. Come on. Hey. Hey. We have to go.
Vision: Please. Please leave.
Wanda Maximoff: You asked me to stay... I'm staying.
Vision: Please.
Wanda Maximoff: Get up.
(Behind them, PROXIMA MIDNIGHT and CORVUS GLAIVE land and advance on Wanda who stands in front of Vision. A train passes behind Wanda, and they all pause as if aware of another's presence. As the last train car passes, we see a silhouette against the back wall. PROXIMA throws her weapon, but it is quickly caught just before the figure steps from the shadows.)
(We now recognize a bearded Captain America as he steps into the light. While they are distracted, Falcon {Sam Wilson} swoops in and kicks PROXIMA MIDNIGHT to the next room. Swooping around, he fires on CORVUS GLAIVE. At the same time, Captain America throws PROXIMA'S weapon to Black Widow who engages CORVUS, stabbing him in the gut and flinging him backwards. PROXIMA, who has now recovered, summons her weapon back to her hand and attacks Captain America and Black Widow simultaneously. While the three are fighting, Falcon flies in and again kicks PROXIMA backwards where she crouches down beside CORVUS.)
Proxima Midnight: (To GLAIVE) Get up.
Corvus Glaive: I can't.
Natasha Romanoff: We don't wanna kill you. But we will.
Proxima Midnight: You'll never get the chance again.
(PROXIMA MIDNIGHT and CORVUS GLAIVE depart as they are beamed up.)
Sam Wilson: (To Vision) Can you stand?
Vision: Thank you, Captain.
Steve Rogers: Let's get you on the jet.
Natasha Romanoff: (Closing the doors to the Quinjet, while addressing Wanda) I thought we had a deal. Stay close, check in. Don't take any chances.
Wanda Maximoff: I'm sorry. We just wanted time.
Sam Wilson: Where to, Cap?
Steve Rogers: Home.
[Cut to the past, at GAMORA'S home planet during THANOS' massacre. YOUNG GAMORA is separated from her mother.]
Gamora's Mother: (To Young Gamora) Shhh. We'll be safe. We'll be safe.
(Gamora screeches and a Child of Thanos finds them and separates them)
Ebony Maw: Zehobereans...
Young Gamora: (As she is dragged away) Mother!
Ebony Maw: Choose a side, or die.
Young Gamora: Mother! (She pulls away from the one who is dragging her and punches him as he leaves)
Ebony Maw: One side, for reservation. The other, an honor...
(YOUNG GAMORA approaches THANOS, desperate to find her mother.)
Thanos: What's wrong, little one?
Young Gamora: My mother. Where is my mother?
Thanos: (Kneels down to Gamora) What's your name?
Young Gamora: Gamora.
Thanos: You're quite the fighter, Gamora. Come. Let me help you. (THANOS takes her hand and leads her to a pavilion, where he produces a small red-jeweled dagger) Look. Pretty, isn't it? Perfectly balanced. As all things should be. Too much to one side, or the other... Here. You try.
Ebony Maw: Now go in peace, and meet your Maker.
(One half of the crowd is shot down. They scream, and YOUNG GAMORA turns, but THANOS prevents her from seeing the massacre.)
Thanos: Concentrate. There! You've got it.
[Cut to the present, aboard the GUARDIANS' ship.]
Peter Quill: Gamora. Do you know if these grenades are the blow off your junk kind or the gas kind? Cause I was thinking I might hang a couple on my belt right here. But I don't want to-
Gamora: I need to ask a favor.
Peter Quill: Yeah, sure.
Gamora: One way or another, the path that we're on leads to Thanos.
Peter Quill: Which is what the grenades are for. (GAMORA silences him with a look.) I'm sorry. What's the favor?
Gamora: If things go wrong... If Thanos gets me... I want you to promise me... you'll kill me.
Peter Quill: (A beat. Confusion.): What?
Gamora: I know something he doesn't. If he finds out... The entire Universe could be at risk.
Peter Quill: What do you know?
Gamora: If I tell you, you'd know, too.
Peter Quill: If it's so important, shouldn't I?
Gamora: Only if you wanna die.
Peter Quill: Why does somebody always have to die in this scenario?
Gamora: Just... trust me. And possibly, kill me.
Peter Quill: I mean, I'd like to. I really would...(GAMORA silences him by covering his mouth with her hand)
Gamora: Swear to me. Swear to me on your mother.
Peter Quill: (beat) Okay.
(The two kiss, until an odd crunching sound startles them. DRAX is standing in the corner.)
Peter Quill: Dude! How long have you been standing there?
Drax: An hour.
Peter Quill: An hour? Are you serious?
Drax: I've mastered the ability, of standing so incredibly still... That I've become invisible to the eye. Watch.
(DRAX stands motionless- until he eats more of his snack.)
Peter Quill: You're eating a zark nut
Drax: But my movement... So slow... And it's imperceptible.
Peter Quill: No.(Peter and Gamora shake their head)
Drax: I'm sure I'm invisible.
Mantis: Hi, Drax.
Drax: Damn it.
(The group lands in KNOWHERE, in search of THANOS)
DRAX: I'm reading movement. From the third quadrant.
PETER QUILL: Yep. I'm picking that up, too.
QUILL: Let's put it down right here.
(The group enters the COLLECTOR's collection room, which is in ruin. THANOS is threatening the COLLECTOR while the GUARDIANS hide behind the rubble.)
THANOS: Everyone in the Galaxy knows you'd sell your own brother if you thought it would add the slightest trinket to your pathetic collection. I know you have the Reality Stone. Giving it to me will spare you a great deal of suffering.
COLLECTOR: I told you. I sold it. Why would I lie?
THANOS: I imagine it's like breathing for you.
COLLECTOR: Like suicide.
THANOS: So you do understand. Not even you would surrender something so precious.
COLLECTOR: I didn't know what it was.
THANOS: Then you're more of a fool than I took you for. Last chance, Tivan. Where's the Stone?
DRAX: Today...
Peter Quill: Drax. Drax.
Drax: ...he pays for the deaths of my wife and daughter.
QUILL: Drax, wait! not yet, not yet, not yet. He doesn't have the Stone yet. We get it, and then we can stop him. We have to get the Stone first. Yeah.
DRAX: No. No. For Ovette. For Camaria.
MANTIS: Sleep. (DRAX is knocked out, causing a ruckus.)
QUILL: Okay. Gamora, Mantis, you go right. I'm... (GAMORA moves towards THANOS.) The other right!
(GAMORA attacks THANOS, stabbing him twice, seemingly killing him.)
THANOS: Why? Why you? Daughter... (he falls down, holding his hand out to her, blood pooling out from his neck wound. GAMORA breaks down in tears.)
QUILL: That was quick.
COLLECTOR: Magnificent! Magnificent! Magnificent!
(Suddenly, THANOS' disembodied voice fills the room, and the scene disappears- everything is leveled, and THANOS is more than alive. He has the REALITY STONE in the INFINITY GAUNTLET.)
THANOS: Is it sadness I sense in you, daughter? In my heart, I knew you still cared. But one ever knows for sure. Reality is often disappointing. That is, it was. Now... Reality can be whatever I want.
GAMORA: You knew I'd come.
THANOS: I counted on it. There's something we need to discuss, little one.
DRAX: Thanos!
(With a flick of his hand, both DRAX and MANTIS are destroyed' in rather comical ways. THANOS grabs GAMORA.)
QUILL: Let her go, Grimace!
GAMORA: Peter...
QUILL: I told you to go right.
GAMORA: Now? Really?
QUILL: You let her go!
THANOS: Ah, the boyfriend.
QUILL: I like to think of myself more as a Titan-killing long term booty call. Let her go.
GAMORA: Peter...
QUILL: Or I'm gonna blow that nut-sack of a chin right off your face!
GAMORA: Not him.
(PETER hesitates. He does not shoot.)
GAMORA: You promised! You promised.
THANOS: Oh, daughter. You expect too much from him. (To PETER) She's asked, hasn't she? Do it. (he shoves GAMORA towards PETER's gun, egging him on.) Do it!
QUILL: I told you to go right.
(PETER begins to tear up.)
GAMORA: I love you, more than anything.
QUILL: I love you, too.
(PETER pulls the trigger- but a stream of bubbles comes out. THANOS was playing him.)
THANOS: I like you.
(THANOS teleports he and GAMORA away as a stunned PETER watches as his friends recover from their deaths'.)
(Back on EARTH, COL. RHODES deals with the red tape.)
ROSS: Still no word from Vision?
RHODES: Satellites lost him somewhere over Edinburgh.
ROSS: On a stolen quinjet with four of the world's most wanted criminals.
RHODES: You know they're only criminals because you've chosen to call them that, right, sir?
ROSS: My God, Rhodes, your talent for horseshit rivals my own.
RHODES: If it weren't for those Accords, Vision would've been right here.
ROSS: I remember your signature on those papers, Colonel.
RHODES: That's right. And I'm pretty sure I've paid for that.
ROSS: You have second thoughts?
RHODES: Not anymore.
ROGERS: Mr. Secretary.
ROSS: You got some nerve. I'll give you that.
NATASHA: You could use some of that right now.
ROSS: The world's on fire. And you think, all is forgiven?
ROGERS: I'm not looking for forgiveness. And I'm way past asking for permission. Earth just lost her best defender. So we're here to fight. And if you wanna stand in our way... We'll fight you, too.
ROSS (To RHODES): Arrest them.
RHODES: All over it. (Turns off hologram) That's a court-martial. It's great to see you, Cap.
ROGERS: You too, Rhodey.
RHODES: Well. You guys, really look like crap. Must've been a rough couple of years.
SAM: Yeah, well, the hotels weren't exactly five star.
BRUCE: Uh, I think you look great. Yeah. I'm back.
NATASHA: Hi, Bruce.
BRUCE: Nat.
SAM WILSON: This is awkward.
(Cuts to a shot of Natasha, Bruce, Steve, Rhodey, Wanda, and Vision in another room.)
BRUCE: So we gotta assume they're coming back, right? And they can clearly find us. We need all hands on deck. Where's Clint?
NATASHA: After the whole Accords situation, he and Scott took a deal. It was too tough on their families.
BRUCE: Who's Scott?
ROGERS: Ant-Man.
BRUCE: There's an Ant-Man and a Spider-Man? Okay, look... Thanos has the biggest army in the Universe. And he is not gonna stop until he... He gets...Vision's stone.
Natasha: Well then, we have to protect it.
VISION: No, we have to destroy it. I've been giving a good deal of thought to this entity in my head, about its nature. But also, its composition. I think if it were exposed to a sufficiently powerful energy source, something, very similar to its own signature, perhaps... Its molecular integrity could fail. (VISION addresses WANDA as he nears her)
WANDA: And you, with it. We're not having this conversation.
VISION: Eliminating the stone is the only way to be certain that Thanos can't get it.
WANDA: That's too high a price.
VISION: Only you, have the power to pay it. Thanos threatens half the Universe. One life cannot stand in the way of defeating him.
ROGERS: But it should. We don't trade lives, Vision.
VISION: (While walking toward Steve) Captain, 70 years ago, you laid down your life to save how many millions of people. Tell me, why is this any different?
(Steve takes a breath, but before he has a chance to answer Bruce begins to speak)
BRUCE: Because you might have a choice. Your mind is made up of a complex construct of overlays. Jarvis, Ultron, Tony, me, the Stone. All of them mixed together. All of them learning from one another.
WANDA: You're saying Vision isn't just the stone?
BRUCE: I'm saying that... If we take out the stone, there's still a whole lot of Vision left. Perhaps the best parts.
NATASHA: Can we do that?
BRUCE: Not me. Not here.
RHODEY: You better find someone, and somewhere fast. Ross isn't exactly just gonna let you guys have your old rooms back.
ROGERS: (pause) I know somewhere.
(Cuts to Wakanda, as T'Challa and Okoye walk together, accompanied by two Wakandan soldiers)
Okoye: You'll have the King's Guard, and the Dora Milaje have been alerted.
T'Challa: And the border tribe?
Okoye: Those that are left.
T'Challa: Send word to the Jabari as well. M'Baku likes a good fight.
Okoye: And what of this one?
T'Challa: This one may be tired of war. but the White Wolf has rested long enough.
(The Wakandan soldiers present the White Wolf with a new adamantium arm)
BUCKY: Where's the fight?
T'CHALLA: On it's way.
[Cut to Ebony Maw interrogating Doctor Strange]
Ebony Maw: In all the time I've served Thanos, I've never failed him. If I were to reach our rendezvous on Titan with the Time Stone still attached to your vaguely irritating person, there would be...judgement. Give me... the stone.
(Cut to Tony who is watching, hidden, from above. Strange's cloak taps Stark on the arm. He raises his hand to it, ready to shoot, but he sees what it is and stands down.)
Tony Stark: Wow you're a seriously loyal piece of outerwear, aren't you?
Peter Parker: Yeah, uh, speaking of loyalty...
Tony Stark: What the-
Peter Parker: I know what you're gonna say.
Tony Stark: You should not be here.
Peter Parker: I was gonna go home-
Tony Stark: I don't wanna hear it.
Peter Parker: But it was such a long way down and I just thought about you on the way-
Tony Stark: And now I gotta hear it.
Peter Parker: ...And I kinda stuck to the side of the ship. And this suit is ridiculously intuitive, by the way. So if anything, it's kinda your fault that I'm here.
Tony Stark: (seriously) What did you just say?
Peter Parker: I take that back. And now I'm here in space.
Tony Stark: Yeah. Right where I don't want you to be. This isn't Coney Island. This isn't a field trip. It's one-way ticket. You hear me? Don't pretend like you thought this through. You could not have possibly thought this through.
Peter Parker: No. I did think this through.
Tony Stark: You could not have possibly thought this through.
Peter Parker: It's just- You can't be a friendly neighborhood Spider  Man when there's no neighborhood. (Pause) Okay. That didn't really make any sense, but you know what I'm trying to say.
Tony Stark: Come on. We got a situation. See him down there? He's in trouble. What's your plan? Go.
Peter Parker: Um. Okay. Okay...uh...did you ever see that really old movie, Aliens?
(Cut back to Ebony Maw interrogating Strange.)
EBONY MAW: Painful aren't they? They were originally designed for microsurgery. And any one of them...
(he turns to see Stark in his Iron Man suit standing there.)
EBONY MAW: ...could end your friend's life in an instant.
Tony Stark: I gotta tell you, he's not really my friend. Saving his life is more a professional courtesy.
EBONY MAW: You've saved nothing. Your powers are inconsequential compared to mine.
Tony Stark: Yeah, but the kid's seen more movies.
(Tony fires a rocket from his shoulder which pierces the side of the ship and begins to suck everything out. Strange begins to be sucked out, but his cape wraps around his arm. Unfortunately, his arm slips from it and he keeps going. Spider-Man shoots a web strand at Strange with one hand and holds onto a piece of the ship with the other. It breaks, sending them both towards space when his Iron-Spider suit's metal arms brace him to keep him from being sucked out.)
Peter Parker: Yes! Wait what are those!
(He then pulls them back inside just as Tony sprays nanites onto the hole to plug it up. Peter and Strange safely hit the floor. Ebony Maw is seen floating in space, quite dead.Peter stands and tries to shake Strange's cape's hand.)
Peter Parker: Hey, we haven't officially met. (it ignores him and goes to Strange.) Cool.
Strange: We've gotta turn this ship around.
Tony Stark: Yeah. Now he wants to run. Great plan.
Strange: No, I want to protect the stone.
Tony Stark: And I want you to thank me. Go ahead. I'm listening.
Strange: For what? Nearly blasting me into space?
Tony Stark: Who just saved your magical ass? Me.
Strange: I seriously don't know how you fit your head into that helmet.
Tony Stark: Admit it. You should have ducked out when I told you to. I tried to bench you. You refused.
Strange: Unlike everyone else in your life, I don't work for you.
Tony Stark: And due to that fact, we're now in a flying doughnut billions of miles away from Earth with no backup.
Peter Parker: I'm backup.
Tony Stark: No. You're a stowaway. The adults are talking.
Strange: I'm sorry, I'm confused as to the relationship here. What is he, your ward?
Peter Parker: No. I'm peter, by the way.
Strange: Doctor Strange.
Peter Parker: Oh we're using our made-up names. Um...I'm Spider-Man, then.
Tony Stark: This ship is self-correcting its course. Thing's on autopilot.
Strange: Can we control it? Fly us home? (Tony doesn't make eye contact.) Stark?
Tony Stark: Yeah.
Strange: Can you get us home?
Tony Stark: Yeah I heard you. I'm thinking...I'm not so sure we should.
Strange: Under no circumstance can we bring the Time Stone to Thanos. I don't think you quite understand what's at stake here.
Tony Stark: No. It's you who doesn't understand. Thanos has been inside my head for six years...Since he sent an army to New York and now he's back! And I don't know what to do. So I'm not so sure if it's a better plan to fight him on out turf or his but you saw what they did, what he can do. At least on his turf, he's not expecting it. So I say we take the fight to him. Doctor. Do you concur?
Strange: (a pause) Alright , Stark. We go to him. But you have to understand...if it comes to saving you or the kid or the Time Stone... I will not hesitate to let either of you die. I can't, because the fate of the universe depends on it.
Tony Stark: Good. Nice. Moral compass.We're straight. (Turning to Peter, he puts his outstretched arm briefly on either shoulder) Alright, kid. You're an Avenger now.
(Peter looks at Tony in disbelief, and then smiles and nods in satisfaction.)
[Cut to Gamora And Thanos aboard Thanos's ship.He brings a little cup of food and holds it out to her.]
Thanos: I thought you might be hungry.
(Gamora takes it, the hurls it across the room where it bangs against Thanos's chair with a loud clack.)
Gamora: I always hated that chair.
Thanos: So I've been told. Even so. I'd hoped you'd sit on it one day.
Gamora: I hated this room. This ship. I hated my life.
Thanos: You told me that too. Every day. For almost twenty years.
Gamora: I was a child when you took me.
Thanos: I saved you.
Gamora: No. No. We were happy on my home planet.
Thanos: Going to bed hungry. scrounging for scraps. Your planet was on the brink of collapse. I'm the one who stopped that. Do you know what's happened since then? The children born have known nothing but full bellies and clear skies. It's a paradise.
Gamora: Because you murdered half the planet.
Thanos: A small price to pay for salvation.
Gamora: You're insane.
Thanos: Little one, it's a simple calculus. This universe is finite, it's resources finite. If life is left unchecked, life will cease to exist. It needs correction.
Gamora: You don't know that!
Thanos: I'm the only one who knows that. At least, I'm the only one with the will to act on it. For a time...you had that same will...as you fought by my side. Daughter.
Gamora: I'm not your daughter. Everything I hate about myself you taught me.
Thanos: And in doing so, made you the fiercest woman in the galaxy. That's why I trusted you to find the Soul Stone.
Gamora: I'm sorry I disappointed you.
Thanos: I am disappointed. But not because you didn't find it. But because you did. And you lied.
[Cut to shot of a large metal door opening. Thanos and Gamora stand there as a set of inner doors made of interlacing metal slide away. Inside, we see that NEBULA is suspended horizontally in the air in the middle of the room.]
Gamora: Nebula.
( the camera shifts to the right side and we see that Nebula has been partially disassembled so that she is still living, yet still slightly connected to each of her parts.)
Gamora: Don't do this.
Thanos: Some time ago, your sister snuck aboard this ship to kill me.
Gamora: Please don't do this.
Thanos: And very nearly succeeded. So I brought her here. To talk.
(Thanos curls in both the power and space stones, causing Nebula's already extended pieces to stretch further outward. She begins to scream.)
Gamora: Stop. Stop it. I swear to you on my life. I never found the Soul Stone.
(Thanos signals a nearby servant who taps on a control pad. We hear Nebula's voice say, Accessing memory files and a sort of hologram of Gamora's face shudders to life.)
Memory Nebula: You know what he's about to do. He's finally ready, and he's going for the stones. All of them.
Memory Gamora: He can never get them all.
Memory Nebula: He will!
Memory Gamora: He can't, Nebula. Because I found the map to the Soul stone and I burnt it to ash. I burnt it.
(The memory ends)
Thanos: (To Gamora) You're strong. Me. You're generous. Me. But I never taught you to lie. That's why you're so bad at it. Where is the Soul Stone?
( He resumes torturing Nebula for several seconds, Gamora wincing at her screams.)
Gamora: Vormir!
(Thanos stops, and Nebula gasps in air. Gamora goes to her and caresses her face.)
Gamora: The Soul Stone is on Vormir.
Thanos: Show me.
[Cut to the pod where Thor, Rocket and Groot are.]
Groot: (Irritably) I am Groot.
Rocket: Tinkle in the cup. We're not looking. What's there to see? What's a twig? Everybody's seen a twig.
Groot: (Still irritably) I am Groot.
Thor: (While looking out the window) Tree, pour what's in the cup out in space, and go in the cup again.
Rocket: You speak Groot?
Thor: Yes, they taught it on Asgard. It was an elective.
Groot: (shortly) I am Groot.
Thor: You'll know when we're there. Nidavellir's forge harnesses the power of a blazing neutron star. (nostalgically) It's the birth place of my hammer. It's truly awesome.
(Rocket turns to see Thor sitting sadly beside the window, and sighs)
Rocket: Okay, time to be the captain. (walks to a console near by Thor) So, dead brother, huh? Yeah, that can be annoying.
Thor: Well, he's been dead before, but this time I think it really might be true.
Rocket: And you said your sister and your dad?
Thor: Both dead.
Rocket: Still got a mom, though?
Thor: Killed by a dark elf.
Rocket: A best friend?
Thor: Stabbed through the heart.
Rocket: Are you sure you're up to this particular murder mission?
Thor: (Smiling widely) Absolutely. Rage, vengeance, anger, loss, regret...They're all tremendous motivators. They really clear the mind. So I'm good to go.
Rocket: Yeah, but this Thanos we're talking about...He's the toughest there is.
Thor: Well, he's never fought me.
Rocket: Yeah, he has.
Thor: He's never fought me twice. And I'm getting a new hammer, don't forget.
Rocket: Better be some hammer.
Thor: You know, I'm 1,500 years old. I've killed twice as many enemies as that, and every one would have rather killed me, but none succeeded. I'm only alive because fate wants me alive. Thanos is the latest in a long line of *morons* and he will be the latest to feel my vengeance.
Rocket: And what if you're wrong?
Thor: If I'm wrong then what more could I lose?
(Thor stands and seats himself at the front of the pod, beside Groot)
Rocket: I could lose a lot. Me personally. I could lose a lot. (Rocket takes an eyeball from somewhere on his person) Okay. If fate does want you to kill that crapsack... You're gonna need more than one stupid eyeball. (He gives Thor the eyeball)
Thor: What's this?
Rocket: What's it look like? Some jerk lost a bet with me on on Contraxia.
Thor: He gave you his eye?
Rocket: He gave me 100 credits. I snuck in later that night and stole his eye.
Thor: Thank you, sweet rabbit.
(Thor proceeds to put the eyeball in his socket)
Rocket: Hmm. Huh? Oh. I would've washed that. The only way I could sneak it off Contraxia was up my...Hey, we're here!
Thor: (Smacking his palm against the side of his head) I don't think this thing works. Everything seems dark.
Rocket: It ain't the eye.
(Nidavellir is dark and motionless as the three near it)
Thor: Something's wrong. The star's gone out. And the rings are frozen.
(Cuts to inside the forge, where Thor, Rocket and Groot walk through a seemingly abandon, and cluttered room)
Rocket: I hope these dwarves are better at forging than they are cleaning...Maybe they realized they live in a junk pile in the middle of space...
Thor: This forge hasn't gone dark in centuries...
Rocket: (Looking to a pedestal) You said Thanos had a gauntlet, right?
Thor: Yes. Why?
Rocket: Look anything like that?
Groot: I am Groot.
Rocket: Go back to the pod.
(Suddenly a large figure storms towards them fiercely)
Thor: Eitri, wait! Stop! Stop.
Eitri: Thor?
Thor: What happened here?
Eitri: You were supposed to protect us. Asgard was supposed to protect us!
Thor: Asgard is destroyed. Eitri, the glove. What did you do?
Eitri: (He pauses before beginning his solemn story) 300 dwarves lived on this ring. I thought if I did what he asked, they'd be safe. I made what he wanted. A device capable of harnessing the power of the stones. Then he killed everyone anyway. All except me. Your life is yours. he said But your hands are mine alone.
Thor: Eitri, this isn't about your hands. Every weapon you've designed, every axe, hammer sword...It's all inside your head. Now I know all hope feels lost. Trust me, I know. But together, you and I, we can kill Thanos.
[Cut to Nebula suspended in the interrogation room seen earlier, while a guard puts her back together. Nebula ejects her eyepiece; disposing of the guard when he comes to replace it. She walks to a console, dragging her dislocated metal foot behind her, and inputs a code.]
Nebula: Mantis, listen very carefully. I need you to meet me on Titan.
[Cut to Peter Parker, Tony Stark, and Doctor Strange aboard the ship]
Peter Parker: (To Tony) Hey, what's going on?
Tony Stark: I think we're here. I don't think this rig has a self-park function. (Instructing Peter to put his arm in the machine for piloting) Get your hand into this steering gimbal. Close those around it. You understand?
Peter Parker: Yep, got it.
Tony Stark: This was meant for one big guy, so we gotta to move at the same time.
Peter Parker: Okay. Okay. Ready.
Tony Stark: We might wanna turn.
Peter Parker: Turn! Turn! Turn!
(Strange creates a shield around them to prevent them from being killed in the landing.)
(The ship, now partially gone, lands on Titan)
Tony Stark: (To Strange) You alright?
Tony Stark: That was close. I owe you one.
(Peter Parker descends from above in spider-like fashion)
Peter Parker: Let me just say, if aliens wind up implanting eggs in my chest or something...And I end up eating you, I'm sorry.
Tony Stark: (While pointing at Peter) I don't wanna hear another single pop culture out of you for the rest of the trip. You understand?
Peter Parker: I'm trying to say that something is coming.
(A grenade rolls into view, and Peter, Strange and Tony get back. Star-Lord, Drax, and Mantis appear in the doorway)
Drax: (Yelling) Thanos!
(The Cloak of Levitation flies at Drax's face and whips him around. Star-Lord pins Iron Man to the wall with a magnetic disc)
Peter Parker: (While crawling backward from Mantis) Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! Please don't put your eggs in me!
(Peter webs Mantis' arms to her body, and Star-Lord flies at him front the side, kicking him down.)
Star-Lord: Stay down, clown.
(Tony fires at the flying Star-Lord as Peter Parker extends his spider legs and jumps at him, but Star-Lord throws an electric cord that wraps around Parker sending him to the ground)
Drax: (Struggling with the Cloak of Levitation) Die, blanket of death!
(Iron Man pulls free of the magnet. They pull weapons on each other. Star-Lord has Peter Parker in a head-lock, while Iron Man stands over Drax with a gun, and Doctor Strange stands ready near Mantis)
Star-Lord: Everybody stay where you are. Chill F out. (Quill powers off his helmet) I'm gonna ask you this one time. Where's Gamora?
Tony Stark: Yeah, I'll do you one better. Who's Gamora?
Drax: I'll do you one better! Why is Gamora?
Star-Lord: Tell me where the girl is, or I swear to you, I'm gonna French fry this little freak.
Tony Stark: Let's do it! You shoot my guy, I blast him. Let's go! (Tony extends his nanotech gun)
Drax: Do it, Quill! I can take it.
Mantis: No he can't take it!
Strange: She's right. You can't.
Star-Lord: Oh yeah? You don't wanna tell me where she is? That's fine. I'll kill all three of you and beat it out of Thanos myself. (To Parker) Starting with you.
Strange: Wait, what, Thanos? All right, let me ask you this one time. What master do you serve?
Star-Lord: What master do I serve? What am I supposed to say? Jesus?
Tony Stark: You're from Earth?
Star-Lord: I'm not from Earth. I'm from Missouri.
Tony Stark: Yeah, that's on Earth dip-shit. What are you hassling us for?
Peter Parker: So, you're not with Thanos?
Star-Lord: With Thanos? (scoffs) No, I'm here to kill Thanos. He took my girl- Wait, who are you?
Peter Parker: We're the Avengers, man.
Star-Lord: Oh.
Mantis: You're the ones Thor told us about.
Tony Stark: You know Thor?
Star-Lord: Yeah. Tall guy, not the good-looking, needed saving.
Tony Stark: Where is he now?
[Cut to Nidavellir where Eitri is showing Thor, Rocket, and Groot the mold for Stormbreaker]
Rocket: This is plan? We're gonna hit him with a brick?
Eitri: It's a mold. A king's weapon. Meant to be the greatest in Asgard. In theory, it could even summon the Bifrost.
Thor: Did it have a name?
Eitri: Stormbreaker.
Rocket: That's a bit much.
Thor: So how do we make it?
Eitri: You'll have to restart the forge. Awaken the heart of a dying star.
Thor: Rabbit, fire up the pod.
[Cut to Titan where Quill is measuring the planet's tilt. Mantis is jumping in the low gravity]
Quill: The *heck* happened to this planet? It's eight degrees off its axis. Gravitational pull is all over the place.
Tony Stark: Yeah, we got one advantage. He's coming to us. We'll use it. All right, I have a plan. Or at least the beginnings of one. It's pretty simple. We draw him in, pin him down, get what we need. Definitely don't wanna dance with this guy. We just need the gauntlet.
(Drax yawns)
Tony Stark: Are you yawning? In the middle of this, while I'm breaking it down? Huh? Did you hear what I said?
Drax: I stopped listening after you said, We need a plan.
Tony Stark: (To Quill) Okay, Mr. Clean is on his own page.
Quill: See, not winging it isn't really what they do.
Peter Parker: Uh, what exactly do they do?
Mantis: Kick names, take ass.
Drax: (Quietly as he shifts to a commanding position beside Mantis) Yeah, that's right
Tony Stark: (Tony stands for a moment with an expression of hopelessness) Alright, just get over her, please. Mr. Lord can you get your folks to circle up?
Quill: Mr. Lord. Star-Lord is fine. (Motions to Drax and Mantis)
Tony Stark: We gotta coalesce. Cause if all we come at him with is a plucky attitude..
Quill: Dude, don't call us plucky. We don't know what is means. Alright, we're optimistic, yes. I like your plan. Except it sucks, so let me do the plans, and that way it might be really good.
Drax: Tell him about the dance-off to save the universe.
Tony Stark: What dance-off?
Quill: It's nothing.
Peter Parker: Like in Footloose, the movie?
Quill: (Excitedly) Exactly like Footloose. Is it still the greatest movie in history?
Peter Parker: It never was.
(Quill frowns sadly at him)
Tony Stark: Don't encourage this, alright?
Peter Parker: Okay.
Tony Stark: We're getting no help from Flash Gordon here.
Quill: Flash Gordon? By the way, that's a compliment. Don't forget, I'm half human. (Quill points at Stark and Parker) So that 50% of me that's stupid... That's 100% you.
Tony Stark: Your math is blowing my mind.
Mantis: Excuse me, but...Does your friend often do that?
(Strange is sitting cross-legged, his hands poise in a mystic gesture with the Time Stone suspended between them. His eyes are closed, and his head is jerking rapidly from side to side)
Tony Stark: Strange, we alright?
(Strange seems to snap out of it as he starts forward, letting out a cry)
Tony Stark: You're back. You're alright. Hi.
Peter Parker: Hey, what was that?
Strange: (Speaking breathlessly) I went forward in time to view alternate futures. To see all the possible outcomes of the coming conflict.
Quill: How did you see?
Strange: 14,000,605.
Tony Stark: How many did we win?
(Strange pauses a while before answering)
Strange: One.
[Cut to Vormir, where Thanos and Gamora have just appeared outside a mountain]
Thanos: The stone had better be up there...For your sister's sake.
(Cut to inside the mountain where Thanos and Gamora stand before a cloaked, faceless figure there to guard the way)
Stonekeeper: Welcome, Thanos, son of Eros. Gamora, daughter of Thanos.
Thanos: You know us?
Stonekeeper: It is my curse to know all who journey here.
Thanos: Where's the Soul Stone?
Stonekeeper: You should know...It extracts a terrible price.
Thanos: I am prepared.
Stonekeeper: We all think that at first. (The figure glides farther out of the shadows and reveals the face of who we know to be Red Skull from Captain America: The First Avenger) We are all wrong.
(Cut to the Red Skull leading Thanos and Gamora to an outside pinnacle)
Thanos: How is it you know this place so well?
Red Skull: A lifetime ago, I, too, sought the stones. I even held one in my hand. But it cast me out, banished me here. Guiding others to a treasure I cannot possess.
(They come to the edge of mountaintop, and stop at the precipice)
Red Skull: What you seek lies before you. As does what you fear.
Thanos: What's this?
Red Skull: The price. Soul hold a special place among the Infinity Stones. You might say it has a certain wisdom.
Thanos: Tell me what it needs.
Red Skull: To ensure that whoever possesses it... Understands its power... The stone demands a sacrifice.
Thanos: Of what?
Red Skull: In order to take the stone you must lose that which you love. A soul...For a soul.
(Gamora begins to laugh at the irony of the situation)
Gamora: All my life, I dreamed of a day...A moment when you would get what you deserved. And I was always so disappointed. But now...You kill and torture...And you call it mercy. The universe has judged you. You asked it for a prize, and it told you no. You failed. And do you wanna know why? Because you love nothing. No one.
Thanos: (Turning to face Gamora with tears in his eyes) No.
Gamora: Really? Tears?
Red Skull: They're not for him.
(Gamora looks at Red Skull, and seems to realize what is about to happen)
Gamora: No. This isn't love.
Thanos: I ignored my destiny once. I cannot do that again. Even for you. I'm sorry, little one.
(Thanos grabs Gamora by the arm and takes her to the precipice)
Gamora: No!
(She tries in vain to brake from his grasp but he soon throws her over the side, and watches sorrowfully as she falls to her death)
[Cut to Thanos lying in water. He opens his hand and sees that he now has the Soul Stone.]
[Cut to the Quinjet where Sam is piloting Rhodey, Steve, Natasha, Wanda, and Vision]
Sam: Drop to 2600, heading 0-3-0. I hope you're right about this, Cap. Or we're gonna land a lot faster than you want to.
(The Quinjet passes through a force field into Wakanda)
Okoye: (Walking with T'Challa and a band of the King's Guard) When you said we were going to open Wakanda to the rest of the world...This is not what I imagined.
T'Challa: And what did you imagine?
Okoye: The Olympics. Maybe even a Starbucks.
(The occupants of the Quinjet descend the ramp)
Bruce Banner: (To Rhodey) Should we bow?
Rhodes: Yeah, he's a king.
Steve Rodgers: Seems like I'm always thanking you for something. (Shaking hands with T'Challa)
(Bruce bows in front of him)
Rhodes: What are you doing?
T'Challa: Uh, we don't do that here. (He dissuades with a motion of his hand) So how big of an assault can we expect?
(The group begins to walk back the way it come to greet the guests)
Bruce Banner: Uh, sir, I think you can expect quite a big assault.
Steve Rodgers: How we looking?
T'Challa: You will have my King's Guard, the Border Tribe, the Dora Milaje, and...
Bucky: (Walking forward toward Steve) A semi-stable, 100-year-old man.
(The two friends share a hug)
Steve: How you been, Buck?
Bucky: Uh, not bad, for the end of the world.
(Cut to inside Shuri's lab where Vision lays on a table, while Bruce and Shuri stand over him, and the others watch. Shuri scans the stone, and studies the hologram)
Shuri: Whoa. The structure is polymorphic.
Bruce: Right, we had to attach each neuron non-sequentially.
Shuri: Why didn't you just reprogram the synapses to work collectively?
Bruce: (Staring for a moment) Because, we didn't think of it.
Shuri: (smiling) I'm sure you did your best.
Wanda: Can you do it?
Shuri: Yes, but there are more than two trillion neurons here. One misalignment could cause a cascade of circuit failures. (To T'Challa) It will take time, brother.
Steve: How long?
Shuri: As long as you can give me.
Okoye: (Looking at a device that just alerted her) Something's entered the atmosphere.
(Cut to outside where Sam and Bucky stand, looking up a the sky)
Sam: (Over the comm) Hey, Cap, we got a situation here.
(The defense shield around Wakanda destroys one of the vessels entering the atmosphere)
Bucky: God, I love this place.
Sam: Yeah, don't start celebrating yet, guys. We got more incoming outside the dome.
Vision: (Appearing beside the window with the others) It's too late. We need to destroy the stone now.
Natasha: (Turning toward Vision) Vision, get your *rear* back on the table.
T'Challa: We will hold them off.
Steve: (To Wanda) Wanda, as soon as the stone's out of his head...you blow it to hell.
Wanda: I will.
T'Challa: Evacuate the city. Engage all defense procedures. (He points to Steve) And get this man a shield.
(Cut to Nidavellir where Rocket is in the pod, and Thor jumps from the roof onto the rings with a rope in his hand attached to the pod)
Rocket: I don't think you get the scientifics here. These rings are gigantic.You wanna get them moving...You're gonna need something a lot bigger to yank 'em loose.
Thor: Leave that to me.
Rocket: Leave that to you? Buddy, you're in space. All you got is a rope and a-
(Thor begins to swing the pod around. He lets the pod drag him, until he stops himself by digging his feet into the ring, still holding the pod. The rings begin to move)
Thor: More power, rabbit!
(Finally the star bursts into life, the rings align, and a jet of light streams through the forge)
Eitri: Well done, boy.
(Thor, hanging on, looks through the pod window, at Rocket, an points to the star)
Thor: That's Nidavellir.
(The iris closes and the beam of light recedes back into the star)
Eitri: *Dang* it.
Rocket: *Dang* it.? What's *dang* it?
Eitri: The mechanism is crippled.
Thor: What?
Eitri: With the iris closed I can't heat the metal.
Thor: How long will it take to heat?
Eitri: A few minutes, maybe more. Why?
Thor: I'm gonna hold it open.
Eitri: That's suicide.
Thor: So is facing Thanos without that axe.
[Cut to the Wakandan battlefield. Their carriers hover over the ground with Wakandan soldier and Natasha, Steve and Bucky on board, and Bruce is in the Hulkbuster]
Natasha: How we looking, Bruce?
Bruce: (While walking) Yeah, I think I'm getting the hang of it. Wow! It's like being the Hulk without actually- (He stumbles on a rock, and a carrier goes by, from which Okoye gives him a dubious look. He stands) I'm okay. I'm okay.
Sam: We got two heat signatures breaking through the tree line.
(M'Baku of the Jubari rallies his soldiers with a war cry. He stops as T'Challa nears him)
T'Challa: Thank you for standing with us.
M'Baku: (Translated) Of course, brother.
(T'Challa, Steve, and Natasha walk to the edge of the barrier, where Proxima Midnight and Obsidian Cole stand)
Natasha: Where's your other friend?
Proxima: You will pay for his life with yours. Thanos will have that stone.
Steve: That's not gonna happen.
T'Challa: You are in Wakanda now. Thanos will have nothing but dust and blood.
Proxima: We...Have blood to spare. (She raises her right arm with a cry, and several large ships emerge from the forest behind her.)
(T'Challa, Steve, Natasha return to the front line)
Bucky: Did they surrender?
Steve: Not exactly.
(T'Challa leads the Wakandans in the war cry Yibambe! telling them to hold fast as the Outriders bound toward the barrier)
Bucky: What the hell?
Natasha: Looks like we pissed her off.
(T'Challa commands the soldiers to engage their shields)
Okoye: (Watching as the Outriders bombard the dome only a few getting through) They're killing themselves.
Sam: (Sending Redwings into the fight as he flies) You seen the teeth on those things?
Rhodes: Alright, back up, Sam. You're gonna get your wings singed. (He flies over a section that has been breached and drops a barrage of mines)
Sam: Cap, if these things circle the perimeter and get in behind us...There's nothing between them and Vision.
Steve: Them we better keep 'em in front of us.
Okoye: (To T'Challa) How do we do that?
T'Challa: We open the barrier. (Putting his hand to his ear) On my signal, open North-West Section Seventeen.
Wakandan Officer: Requesting confirmation, My King. You said open the barrier?
T'Challa: On my signal.
M'Baku: (To Okoye) This will be the end of Wakanda.
Okoye: Then it will be the noblest ending in history.
(The section of the barrier is opened)
T'Challa: Wakanda Forever! (He crosses his hands over his chest as his Black Panther helmet covers his face, leading the army as they run toward the barrier. T'Challa and Steve are at the front of the advancing army) Now! (The section in the barrier disappears and the Outriders charge at them)
T'Challa: How much longer, Shuri? (Over the comm)
Shuri: We've barely begun, brother.
T'Challa: You might want to pick up the pace.
(Cut to Thor on the rings of Nidavellir)
Thor: Allfathers, give me strength.
Eitri: You understand, boy? You're about to take the full force of a star. It'll kill you.
Thor: Only if I die.
Eitri: Yes. That's what killing you means.
(Thor grasps the handholds and pulls, slowly opening the iris. The stream of light returns and awakens the forge once more.)
Eitri: Hold it! Hold it, Thor!
(Eitri watches the metal melt, and tips the cauldron, pouring it into the mold. Thor passes out, and the jet carries him to the forge. Rocket follows him, in the pod, and Groot looks up from his game when Thor lands near him)
Rocket: (Kneeling over Thor) Thor! Say something. Come on. Thor, you okay? (To Eitri) I think he's dying.
Eitri: He needs the axe! Where's the handle? Tree, help me find the handle!
(Groot looks sadly at Thor, stands and grows a longer arm, weaving it around the axe and hammer, joining them,and then cutting his arm off at the usual length. Thor's hand opens slightly, and the hammer rises from the ground; lightening flickering from it)
(Cut to Wakanda where the Avengers and Wakandans are struggling against the Outriders. Suddenly, a large beam of light lands nearby, and the Avengers and Wakandans stop to look up as the axe flies through the air, electrocuting the Outriders. Thor appears with his new axe Stormbreaker, alongside Rocket and Groot.)
Bruce: [laughing with joy] Hah! Hah! Hah! You guys are so screwed now!
Thor: BRING ME THANOS!!! (He charges toward the hoards of Outriders, followed by Groot and Rocket)
[Cut to Titan, where Thanos appears in front of Doctor Strange, who appears to be the only one there]
Strange: Oh, you're much more of a Thanos.
Thanos: I take it the Maw is dead. This day extracts a heavy toll. Still, he accomplished his mission.
Strange: You may regret that. He brought you face-to-face with the Master of the Mystic Arts.
Thanos: And where do you think he brought you? (Star-Lord is near by behind wreckage with his weapon ready, and Spiderman is above the structure where Strange sits.
Strange: Let me guess. Your home?
Thanos: (Smiling reminiscently) It was. And it was beautiful. (Thanos uses the Reality Stone to show Strange Titan before it was destroyed) Titan was like most planets. Too many mouths, and not enough to go around. And when we faced extinction, I offered a solution.
Strange: Genocide.
Thanos: But at random, dispassionate, fair to rich and poor alike. They called me a madman. And what I predicted came to pass. (The illusion fades into the true state of Titan)
Strange: Congratulations. You're a prophet.
Thanos: I'm a survivor.
Strange: Who wants to murder trillions.
Thanos: With all six stones, I could simply snap my fingers, and they would all cease to exist. I call that...Mercy.
Strange: And then what?
Thanos: I finally rest...And watch the sun rise on a grateful universe. The hardest choices require the strongest wills.
Strange: I think you'll find our will (Using his hand motions) equal to yours.
Thanos: Ours? (He looks up in time to a see a chunk of wreckage coming down on him, and tries to use the Power to stop, but is too late)
Iron Man: (Flying in) Piece of cake, Quill.
Quill: (Flying in from the other side) Yeah, if your goal was to *tick* him off.
(The wreckage on top of Thanos erupts, the pieces glowing with purple. He shouts as he uses the Power Stone to force the pieces at Iron Man. Spiderman webs his eyes, and swings in the kick him in the face. Then Strange summons a blade, but Thanos stops it with his hand, and tears the web from his eyes. He advances on Strange, and kicks him just as Strange summons a shield, absorbing the force of his blow, but knocking him back. Star-Lord shoots Thanos from behind, and Thanos uses the Power Stone to shoot balls on energy at Star-Lord while he advances by the steps Strange formed in the air, and places a electric mine on his back. He turns to Quill, as he disengages his helmet, dives backward into a portal, flipping him off.)
Star-Lord: Boom!
(Thanos tries to use the Space Stone to pull Quill back)
Strange: (To the Cloak of Levitation) Do not let him close his fist.
(The Cloak closes around Thanos' fist, and the mine on his back goes off. Spiderman appears on his right from a portal)
Spider-Man: Magic. (He kicks him in the head) More magic.
(He then leaps into another portal. As Thanos tries to recover, he appears through another portal behind him)
Spider-Man: Magic with a kick! (He kicks him again in the head with his right leg)
(Finally, he appears on his right)
Spider-Man: Magic with a-
(Before he can finish Thanos turns, grabbing him from the air, and throwing him to the ground, with his hand around his neck.)
Thanos: Insect! (He then throws him, about to use the gauntlet, but is interrupted by an explosion caused by Iron Man shooting a missile at him. As the flames blind Thanos, Spiderman attaches a web to him, and strains against it. Thanos pulls Spiderman toward him, but looks up as a ship crashes beside him, and Nebula jumps in front of him)
Thanos: Well, well.
Nebula: You should have killed me.
Thanos: It would've been a waste of parts!
Nebula: [she runs at Thanos, attacking him with her sword] Where's Gamora?!
[Strange uses the Space Stone to case her aside, flailing. Strange forms energy ropes that grapple onto the gauntlet. Thanos tries to pull it free, as Star-Lord shoots a electric magnet onto the ground beside him, holding down his other hand. Spiderman swings in, and makes a string of web, holding him back, enabling his spider legs to anchor himself, as Strange opens a portal above Thanos out of which drops Mantis, who lands on his shoulders, her hands on his temples. He screams as she tries to put him under]
Iron Man: [while pulling on the gauntlet] Is he under? Don't let up.
Mantis: [starting to cry] Be quick... He is very strong!
Iron Man: Parker, help! Get over here. [Parker withdraws his web, and hurries to help Tony with the gauntlet] She can't hold him much longer. Let's go. We gotta open his fingers to get it off!
Star-Lord: [lands, then joins with the others] I thought you'd be harder to catch. For the record, this was my plan. Not so strong now, huh? Where's Gamora?
Thanos: ... My... Gamora...?
Star-Lord: Oh, bullshit. Where is she?
Mantis: [shocked] He is in anguish!
Star-Lord: Good.
Mantis: [crying] He... he... he mourns!
Drax: What does this monster have to mourn?!
Nebula: [she suddenly understands in horror what Thanos has done with...] Gamora.
Star-Lord: ... What?
Nebula: He took her to Vormir. He came back with the Soul Stone...but she didn't.
Iron Man: Okay, Quill, you gotta cool it right now, understand?
[Quill slowly turns to Thanos]
Iron Man: Don't, don't, don't engage, we've almost got this off!
Star-Lord: Tell me she's lying. [enraged] ASSHOLE!!! Tell me you didn't do it!!!
Thanos: I... had... to.
Star-Lord: [while starting to tear up; quietly] No, you didn't... No, you didn't... [he continues to rage and then proceeds to pistol-whipping Thanos in the face] NO, YOU DIDN'T!!!
Drax: Quill!
[Quill uses his gun to pound Thanos in the face twice. Iron Man goes to hold him back, as Peter Parker is left to pull off the gauntlet]
Iron Man: [to the struggling Quill] Hey, stop! Hey, stop! Stop! Hey, stop! Stop!
Spider-Man: It's coming! It's coming! I got it! I got it...!!
[But Thanos wakes, butting Mantis from his shoulders, and grabbing the cuff of the gauntlet just as it is sliding off his hand, causing Parker to stumble back, and Mantis to go flying]
Spider-Man: [seeing Mantis flying] Oh, God! [he jumps and hugs her, extending his spider legs which give them a safe landing]
[Strange summons a weapon, and Thanos uses the Space Stone to throw him away. Then, Iron Man shoots at him, but Thanos bats him down, and uses the Space Stone to pull down the surface of a moon. Stark tries to fly away, but a large chunk pins him down]
Stonekeeper: Welcome, Thanos, son of Eros, Gamora, daughter of Thanos.
Thanos: You know us?
Stonekeeper: It is my curse to know all who journey here.
Thanos: Where is the Soul Stone?
Stonekeeper: You should know: it extracts a terrible price.
Thanos: I am prepared.
Stonekeeper: We all think that at first. [his face is revealed as the Red Skull] We are all wrong.
Thanos: How is it you know this place so well?
Red Skull: A lifetime ago, I too sought the stones. I even held one in my hand. But it cast me out, banished me here, guiding others to a treasure I cannot possess.
Gamora: I was a child when you took me.
Thanos: I saved you.
Gamora: No, no, we were happy on my home planet.
Thanos: Going to bed hungry, scrounging for scraps? Your planet was on the brink of collapse. I was the one who stopped that. You know what's happened since then? The children born have known nothing but full bellies and clear skies. It's a paradise.
Gamora: Because you murdered half the planet!
Thanos: A small price to pay for salvation.
Gamora: You're INSANE.
Thanos: Little one, it's a simple calculus. This universe is finite, its resources ... finite. If life is left unchecked, life will cease to exist. It needs correcting.
Gamora: YOU DON'T KNOW THAT!
Thanos: I'm the only one who knows that. At least, I'm the only who the will to act on it.
Rocket: You speak Groot?!
Thor: Yes, they taught it on Asgard. It was an elective.
Groot: I am Groot?
Thor: You'll know when we're close. Nidavellir's forge harnesses the blazing power of a Neutron Star. It's the birthplace of my hammer; it's truly awesome.
Rocket: [to himself] Okay, time to be the Captain. [to Thor] So, dead brother, huh? That can be annoying.
Thor: Well, he's been dead before. But this time... I think it really might be true.
Rocket: And you said that your sister and your dad...
Thor: Both dead.
Rocket: But, still got a mom, though?
Thor: Killed by a Dark Elf.
Rocket: Best friend?
Thor: Stabbed through the heart.
Rocket: You sure you're up for this particular murder mission?
Thor: Absolutely. The rage, vengeance, anger, loss, regret, they're all tremendous motivators. They truly clear the mind... so, I'm good to go.
Rocket: Yeah, but this is Thanos we're talking about, he's the toughest there is.
Thor: Well, he's never fought me.
Rocket: ... Yeah, he has!
Thor: Well, he's never fought me twice. And I'll have a new hammer, don't forget.
Rocket: Well, it'd better be some hammer.
Thor: You know, I'm one thousand and five hundred years old. I've killed twice as many enemies as that, and every one of them would have rather killed me, but none succeeded. I'm only alive because Fate wants me alive. Thanos is just the latest in a long line of bastards, and he'll be the latest to feel my vengeance. Fate wills it so.
Rocket: And what if you're wrong?
Thor: Well, if I'm wrong, then... what more could I lose?
Gamora: All my life I dreamed of a day, a moment, when you got what you deserved. And I was always so disappointed. But now, you kill and torture and you call it mercy. The universe has judged you. You asked it for a prize and it told you no. You failed. And do you wanna know why? Because you love nothing. No one.
Thanos: [sheds a tear] No.
Gamora: Really? Tears?
Red Skull: They are not for him.
[Gamora realizes what Thanos is going to do]
Gamora: No. This isn't love.
Thanos: I ignored my destiny once. I cannot do that again. Even for you.
[Gamora anguishly takes the double-edged knife Thanos had given her, then tries to kill herself. But Thanos uses the Reality Stone, turning the knife into bubbles]
Thanos: [anguished] I'm sorry, Gamora.
Gamora: [muted] NO!
Banner: Who's Scott?
Steve Rogers: Ant-Man.
Banner: There's an Ant-Man and a Spider-Man?!
Stark: [to the Guardians] We gotta work together. Because if all we come out with is a plucky attitude...
Quill: Dude, don't call us plucky. We don't know what it means. We're more optimistic, yes. I like your plan. Except...it sucks. So, let me do the plan and that way...it might be really good.
Drax: Tell him about the dance-off to save the universe.
Stark: What dance-off?
Quill: It's not a thing.
Parker: Like in Footloose? The movie?
Quill: Exactly like Footloose. Is it still the greatest movie in history?
Parker: It never was.
Stark: Don't encourage this alright we're not getting any help from Flash Gordon.
Quill: Flash Gordon? That's a compliment. Don't forget, I'm half human. So that 50% of me that's stupid, that's 100% you.
[Thanos emerges from a teleport on the ruined Titan]
Strange: Oh, yeah. You're much more of a Thanos.
Thanos: I take it that Maw is dead? This day extracts a heavy toll. Still, he accomplished his mission.
Strange: You may regret that. He brought you face-to-face with the Master of the Mystic Arts.
Thanos: Where do you think he brought you?
Strange: Let me guess. Your home.
Thanos: It was. [activates the Reality Stone, showing a holographic image of a populated Titan] And it was beautiful. Titan was like most planets; too many mouths, not enough to go around. And when we faced extinction, I offered a solution.
Strange: Genocide?
Thanos: At random. Dispassionate, fair; To rich and poor alike. They called me a madman... and what I predicted came to pass.
Strange: Congratulations, you're a prophet.
Thanos: I'm a survivor.
Strange: Who wants to murder trillions.
Thanos: With all six stones, I could simply snap my fingers; They would all cease to exist. I call that... mercy.
Strange: Then what?
Thanos: I finally rest and watch the Sun rise on a grateful universe. The hardest choices require the strongest wills.
Strange: [he summons his Mandalas, entering a fighting pose] I think you'll find our wills equal to yours.
Thanos: Ours?
[Stark crushes Thanos with a pillar of wreckage]
Stark: Piece of cake, Quill.
Quill: Yeah, if your goal is to piss him off!
Tony Stark: So this is it. It's all been leading to this.
Thor: Ready?
Steve Rogers: Let's go.
Gamora: He won't stop. Until he destroys half the universe. Everything you know... Everything you love... It will all be gone.
Peter Quill: Let's talk about this plan of yours. I think it's good, except it sucks. So let me do the plan and that way it might be really good. Tony Stark: Wow.
Thanos: The end is near. When I'm done, half of humanity will still exist. Perfectly balanced, as all things should be.
[upon seeing Steve] Thor: New haircut? I notice you've copied my beard. Oh, by the way, this is a friend of mine. A tree. Groot: I am Groot. Steve Rogers: I am Steve Rogers.
Black Panther: Thank you for standing with us, M'Baku. M'baku: Of course, brother.
Black Panther: How much longer, Shuri?
Bruce Banner: [trying to change into the Hulk] Hulk. Hulk, I know you like making your entrance at the last second, well, this is it, man. This is the last, last second. Hulk! Hulk! Hulk! [Hulk: NOOOO!] Oh, screw you, you big green asshole! I'll do it myself!
[Thanos has just got the Infinity Stones; Thor suddenly hurls Stormbreaker, which goes right into Thanos' chest]
Thor: I told you. You'd die for that!
[He takes hold of the back of Thanos's head and forces Stormbreaker deeper into his chest, staring angrily into his eyes while Thanos cries out in pain]
Thanos: You should've... You... You should've gone for the head!!
[He raises his gauntlet and snaps his fingers]
Thor: NO!
[Thanos is now briefly inside the Soul Stone, where he sees a young Gamora on the home world of the Zen-Whoberi]
Thanos: Daughter?
Gamora: Did you do it?
Thanos: Yes.
Gamora: [beat] What did it cost?
Thanos: [solemnly] ... Everything.
[Now out of the Soul Stone, Thanos notices the damages inflicted on the scorched Gauntlet]
Thor: What did you do? [angrily] WHAT DID YOU DO?!
[Thanos mockingly smirks at Thor before he uses the Space Stone and teleports away, leaving Stormbreaker left on the Wakandian field]
Captain America: Where'd he go? Thor... where'd he go?
Bucky Barnes: [feeling his prosthetic arm turning into ash] Steve?
[Bucky suddenly stumbles over, and collapses into ashes, much to Steve's shock; Thor watches Steve mourning Bucky's death. On the battlefield, Wakankan soldiers disintegrate to ashes, much to M'Baku's horror]
T'Challa: [while reaching for a fallen Okoye] Up, General. Up! This is no place to die. [he suddenly disintegrates into ashes and Okoye falls back on the ground, much to her anguish]
Okoye: Hezvo...?!
Groot: [resting on a tree branch; slowly disintegrating, to Rocket] I am Groot... [Translation: Dad?]
Rocket: [as Groot starts slowly to corrode into ashes, much to Rocket's horror] No... No. No. No. No! Groot... no.
[Scarlet Witch is mourning over Vision. She then turns into ashes. An injured Falcon turns to ashes, hidden in the brush]
War Machine: [searching for Falcon, missing him by only a few feet] Sam? Sam!? Where you at?!
[Back on Titan, the remaining members of the Guardians and Avengers help themselves up from their battle against Thanos they had lost]
Mantis: Something... is... happening. [she gets killed into ashes]
Drax: [to Quill; his right arm and lower-half of his body slowly turns to ashes] Quill...?
[Drax gets disintegrated next as Quill stares in horror]
Tony Stark: Steady, Quill.
Quill: Aw, man.
[Quill also gets disintegrated into ashes]
Strange: [calmly turns to Stark] Tony, there was no other way. [he finally gets erased]
Parker: [feels himself starting to disintegrate and doesn't want to die] Mister Stark? I don't feel so good...
Tony Stark: [trying to be calm] You're all right.
Parker: [stumbling] I don't know what's  I don't know what's happening. I don't  [Parker falls into Stark's arms, clutching him tight and crying] Save me, save me! I don't wanna go, I don't wanna go, Mister Stark, please. Please, I don't wanna go. I don't wanna go... I'm sorry.
[Parker disintegrates into ashes in Stark's arms]
Nebula: [to Tony Stark, seeing Thanos' victory] He did it.
[Stark mourns silently at his failure it caused. Back on Wakanda, the remaining team members, Captain America, Thor, War Machine, Black Widow, Bruce Banner, and Rocket are left mourning near Vision's dead body]
War Machine: What is this? What the hell is happening?
Captain America: ... Oh, God.
[Meanwhile, on a different planet, Thanos sits down and watches the Sun rising]
Nick Fury: Still no word from Stark?
Maria Hill: No, not yet. We're watching every satellite in both hemispheres, there's still nothing. [receives three beeps from her device]
Fury: What is it?
Hill: Multiple bogeys over Wakanda.
Fury: Same energy signatures as New York?
Hill: Ten times bigger.
Fury: Call Klein. We'll meet him at 
Hill: NICK!
[Suddenly, a car spirals out of control into them. Hill goes over to check on the driver of the car, but sees no one is in there]
Fury: They okay?
Hill: There's no one here.
[Suddenly, a helicopter, with ash flying out, crashes into a building. The two are now witnessing civilians around them suddenly disintegrating]
Fury: Call control. Code Red!
Hill: [alerting Fury] Nick...?
[Fury turns around to see Hill disintegrating]
Fury: Hill?
[Fury then races back to their car and gets a pager out. He sends out an emergency alert, mere seconds before his hand turns into ashes]
Fury: Oh, no. Motherf 
[Fury corrodes to dust. The pager falls to the ground; we see the device display a red-and-blue star insignia, indicating the symbol of Captain Marvel](The screen first panels up to an arrow being nocked into a bow. The archer behind firmly grips it tight as it was aiming towards the target. The camera reveals Clint Barton holding up a few arrows while mentoring his daughter, Lila Barton, on shooting one.)
CLINT BARTON: Okay, hold on. Don't shoot. You see where you're going?
LILA BARTON: Mhm.
CLINT BARTON: Okay, now let's worry about how you get there. [Clint corrects his daughter's foot to the proper position, and adjusts her shooting stance.]
CLINT BARTON: Here. Can you see?
LILA BARTON: Yeah.
CLINT BARTON: You sure?
LILA BARTON: Mhm. [Clint pushes Lila's hair in front of her face while covering her left eye.]
CLINT BARTON: How about now?
[Both Lila and Clint giggle, as the camera panels into a long shot showing a target nailed on a tree, and the rest of Barton family having a picnic in the field.]
CLINT BARTON: Alright. Ready your fingers.
COOPER BARTON: Nice.
LAURA BARTON: Nice throw, kiddo.
COOPER BARTON: You go.
LAURA BARTON: Hey, you guys want mayo or mustard, or both? [Camera switches to Lila who then proceeds to look at Clint.]
LILA BARTON: Who wants mayo on a hotdog?
CLINT BARTON: Probably your brothers.
[Clint looks at his wife, Laura]
CLINT BARTON: Uh, two mustard, please! Thanks, mama. [Camera switches to Laura facing Nathaniel]
LAURA BARTON: Mayo or mustard?
NATHANIEL BARTON: How about ketchup?
LAURA BARTON: Ketchup? [Camera switches back to Clint and his daughter] I can do ketchup.
CLINT BARTON: Mind your elbow. [Lila releases the arrow and it hits the target directly in the bullseye.] Hahaha! Good job, Hawkeye. Go get your arrow.
LAURA BARTON: Hey guys! Enough practice, soup's on!
CLINT BARTON: Alright, we're coming; we're hungry. [Clint looks behind him, but there's no one there, but dust being blown away by the wind.] Lila, let's go. [Clint starts to look around] Lila? [Clint starts to move and look around, and pick up the bow she had.] Honey? [Clint looks around to see Laura and the boys, only they are gone now. He looks seriously panicked and confused as he hurriedly drops the arrows and jogs over to where they were.] Hey, babe! Babe? Babe? Boys? Boys? Laura?
[Lightning crackles]
[SOMEWHERE IN SPACE]
[Marvel Studios Opening sequence begins with Dear Mr. Fantasy playing. Only the heroes who survived the snap are shown.]
[Scene switches to Nebula and Tony on the ship playing paper football]
NEBULA: Wrra! [Nebula, frustrated, puts her hands in a fighting stance while looking at Tony.]
Tony Stark: You don't need to do that. Because uh... you're just holding position. [Nebula flicks a paper football towards Tony] Oh yeah, that was close. [Nebula once again flicks a paper football towards Tony] That's a goal. We're now one apiece.
NEBULA: I would like to try again. [Nebula flicks a paper football towards Tony]
Tony Stark: We're tied up. Feel the tension? It's fun.
[Tony poorly flicks a paper football towards Nebula]
Tony Stark: That was terrible. Now you have a chance to win. [Nebula flicks the paper football towards Tony]
Tony Stark: And... you've won. Congratulations. [Tony reaches his hand out to shake Nebula's hand]
Tony Stark: Fair game. Good sport. [Nebula shakes Tony's hand] Have fun?
NEBULA: It was fun.
[Camera switches to see Iron Man's busted helmet. Tony Stark's hand reaches forward to turn on the helmet. We pan out to see that he's sitting on the floor of a gloomy Benatar. The weight of the recent events of INFINITY WAR evident in Tony's posture. He taps the helmet with a sigh.]
Tony Stark: This thing on? [The helmet scans Tony. Tony leans against the wall while taking deep breaths. He looks skinnier and weak with malnutrition.] Hey, Miss Potts... Pep. If you find this recording, don't post it on social media. It's gonna be a real tear-jerker. I don't know if you're ever going to see these. I don't even know if you're... if you're still... Oh god, I hope so. Today is day 21, uh 22. [Cut to Tony standing at a window to stare out in space, waiting for his impending doom to arrive.] You know, if it wasn't for the existential terror of staring into a void of space, I'd say I'm feeling better today. The infection's run its course, Thanks to the blue meanie back there. [Cut to a shot of Nebula sitting in the back of the Benatar.] You'd love her. Very practical. Only a tiny bit sadistic. Some fuel cells were cracked during battle, but we figured out a way to reverse the ion charge to buy ourselves about 48 hours of time. [A shot of Tony and Nebula working on the fuel cells of the Benatar.] But it's now dead in the water. We're 1000 light years from the nearest 7-11. Oxygen will run out tomorrow. And that'll be it. And Pep, I ... I know I said no more surprises, but I was really hoping to pull off one last one. But it looks like... well you know what it looks like. Don't feel bad about this. I mean, if you grovel for a couple of weeks, and then move on with enormous guilt. I should probably lie down. Please know that... when I drift off, I will think about you. Because it's always you.
[With that, Tony turns the helmet off. He rubs his thumb over the left eye, and then leans down, to what would be his last sleep. Nebula walks over to him, and carries him to Drax's seat, and lies him there. She walks away dejected.]
[A vast bluish nebula illuminates the space surrounding them. Cut to a shot of Tony's face, which for the first time shows age and weakness. There is a light on his face, which grows brighter and brighter until he's forced to open his eyes. The camera pans around to the light source, which is slowly revealed to be CAROL DANVERS.]
[A bathroom in the Avengers compound. We see Steve Rogers holding a blade, having just shaved off his beard. He sighs and looks into a side mirror. The mirror suddenly starts shaking, slowly at first, and then severely. Cut to the yard in the Avengers Compound, we see Steve Rogers, Natasha Romanoff, Bruce Banner, and James Rhodes walking out looking at something, the Benatar carried by Carol Danvers as she lands the spacecraft. The landing gears deploy as they touch down. The entry hatch opens, and Tony and Nebula walk out, Tony being supported by Nebula. Steve runs to Tony to help him stand up. Tony grips Steve's arm as he joins him.]
Tony Stark: Couldn't stop him.
STEVE ROGERS: Neither could I.
Tony Stark: I lost the kid.
STEVE ROGERS: Tony, we lost.
Tony Stark: Is, uh...? [Tony struggles to ask about Pepper.]
PEPPER POTTS: Oh, my God! Oh, my God! [She and Tony embrace.]
Tony Stark: It's okay.
[Rocket Raccoon sits down with Nebula and takes her hand, both silently mourning their losses. In the Avengers Compound. The heroes are sitting in a living room area. Tony is sitting at a table, getting blood for healing. A holographic casualty report lists the names and faces of those lost to the Decimation.]
JAMES RHODES: It's been 23 days since Thanos came to Earth.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: World governments are in pieces. The parts that are still working are trying to take a census. And it looks like he did... he did exactly what he said he was gonna do. Thanos wiped out fifty percent, of all living creatures.
Tony Stark: Where is he now? Where?
STEVE ROGERS: We don't know. He just opened a portal and walked through.
[Cut to a shot of a sullen-looking Thor, sitting on a bench, seemingly deep in thought.]
Tony Stark: What's wrong with him?
ROCKET: Oh, he's pissed. He thinks he failed. Which of course he did, but you know there's a lot of that's going around, ain't there?
Tony Stark: Honestly, until this exact second, I literaly thought you were a Build-A-Bear.
ROCKET: Maybe I am.
STEVE ROGERS: We've been hunting Thanos for three weeks now. Deep Space scans, and satellites, and we got nothing. Tony, you fought him.
Tony Stark: Who told you that? [Surprised] I didn't fight him. No, he wiped my face with a planet while the Bleecker Street Magician gave away the store. That's what happened. There was no fight.
STEVE ROGERS: Okay.
Tony Stark: He's unbeatable.
STEVE ROGERS: Did he give you any clues, any coordinates, anything?
Tony Stark: Pfft! I saw this coming a few years back. I had a vision. I didn't wanna believe it. Thought I was dreaming.
STEVE ROGERS: Tony, I'm gonna need you to focus.
Tony Stark: [starting to seethe] And I needed you. As in past tense. That trumps what you need. It's too late buddy. Sorry. You know what I need? [Tony stands, pushing things off the table with a clatter. Everyone winces at the noise.] I need to shave. And I believe I remember telling all youse -
[Tony goes for Steve. Rhodey quickly comes in front of him, trying to stop him.]
RHODEY: Tony, Tony, Tony!
Tony Stark: Alive and otherwise what we needed was a suit of armor around the world! Remember that? Whether it impacted our precious freedoms or not- that's what we needed!
STEVE ROGERS: Well, that didn't work out, did it?
Tony Stark: I said, "we'd lose". You said, "We'll do that together too." And guess what, Cap? We lost. And you weren't there. But that's what we do, right? Our best work after the fact? We're the Avengers, we're the Avengers. Not the Prevengers.
RHODEY: Okay.
Tony Stark: Right?
RHODEY: You made your point. Just sit down.
Tony Stark: Okay...
RHODEY: Okay?
Tony Stark: Nah, nah. Here's my point. You know what?
RHODEY: Tony, you're sick.
Tony Stark: [Referring to Carol] She's great, by the way.
RHODEY: Sit down. Sit.
Tony Stark: We need you. You're new blood. Bunch of tired old mules! [Tony walks right up to Steve's face, his voice hushing down to a venomous whisper] I got nothing for you, Cap! I got no coordinates, no clues, no strategies, no options. Zero. Zip. Nada. No trust. Liar.
[Steve looks affected by Tony's words. The old friends just gaze at each other. After a moment, Tony rips his Arc Reactor from his chest and shoves it into Steve's hand.]
Tony Stark: Here, take this. You find him, and you put that on. You hide.
[Tony falls to the ground. Steve is by his side and everyone is starting to gather.]
STEVE ROGERS: Tony!
Tony Stark: I'm fine. I...
[Tony falls into a heap, unconscious.]
[Cut to a shot of Tony on a bed, with Pepper at his side.]
RHODEY: Bruce gave him a sedative. He's gonna probably be out for the rest of the day.
CAROL DANVERS: You guys take care of him. And I'll bring him a Xorrian Elixir when I come back.
[Carol walks away.]
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Where are you going?
CAROL DANVERS: To kill Thanos.
[Steve and Natasha share a look before walking after her.]
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Hey, you know, we usually work as a team here, and between you and I, morale's a little fragile.
STEVE ROGERS: We realize up there is more your territory, but this is our fight too.
RHODEY: You even know where he is?
CAROL DANVERS: I know people who might.
NEBULA: [Standing behind Carol] Don't bother. I can tell you where Thanos is. Thanos spent a long time trying to perfect me. And when he worked, he talked about his great plan. Even disassembled, I wanted to please him. I'd ask "where would we go once his plan was complete?". His answer was always the same: "To the Garden."
RHODEY: That's cute, Thanos has a retirement plan.
STEVE ROGERS: So where is he?
ROCKET: When Thanos snapped his fingers, Earth became ground zero for a power surge of ridiculously cosmic proportions. No one's ever seen anything like it... Until two days ago. [A hologram of a planet pops up, with a shockwave visibly traversing the surface.] On this planet.
NEBULA: Thanos is there.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: He used the stones again.
BRUCE BANNER: Hey, hey, hey. We'd be going in short-handed, you know.
RHODEY: Look, he's still got the stones, so...
CAROL DANVERS: So let's get him... Use them to bring everyone back.
RHODEY: Just like that?
STEVE ROGERS: Yeah, just like that.
[Steve and Carol share a knowing look.]
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Even if there's a small chance that we can undo this... I mean we owe it to everyone who's not in this room to try.
BRUCE BANNER: If we do this, how do we know it's gonna end any differently than it did before?
CAROL DANVERS: Because before, you didn't have me.
RHODEY: Hey, new girl, everyone here is about that superhero life. And if you don't mind my asking, where the hell have you been all this time?
CAROL DANVERS: There are a lot of other planets in the universe. And unfortunately, they didn't have you guys.
[Thor, who has been eating a snack behind all this time, stands up and walks over to Carol. She looks behind at him. He holds his hand up, and catches Stormbreaker as it flies over to him, missing Carol by inches. But Carol doesn't even flinch, instead smiling at the God of Thunder.]
Thor: I like this one. [smiles]
STEVE ROGERS: Let's go get this son of a bitch.
[Title Screen: Avengers: Endgame]
[Cut to a shot of everyone except for Tony aboard the Benatar.]
ROCKET: Okay, who here hasn't been to space?
[Nat, Cap, and Rhodey raise their hands.]
RHODEY: Why?
ROCKET: You better not throw up on my ship.
NEBULA: Approaching jump in 3... 2... 1!
[The ship jumps forward into a wormhole, and we see Steve holding onto his seat for dear life. A close up of his eyes show them widening slightly at the exhilaration of this new experience. The ship slows down, and the ship hovers in orbit of the planet seen in the hologram previously. Carol Danvers hovers in front of the Benatar.]
CAROL DANVERS: I'll head down for recon.
[A shot of the passengers inside the Benatar preparing for the impending confrontation.]
NATASHA ROMANOFF: This is gonna work, Steve.
STEVE ROGERS: I know it will.
[We see Steve holding a compass with an image of Peggy Carter.]
STEVE ROGERS: Cause I don't know what I'm going to do if it doesn't.
[Carol Danvers approaches the Benatar.]
CAROL DANVERS: No satellites, no ships, no armies, no ground defenses of any kind. It's just him.
NEBULA: And that's enough.
[Cut to a shot of a scenic lush tropical fauna. It surrounds a shed on a farm. A scarecrow made of Thanos' armour is seen before we cut to a shot focusing on the burnt Infinity Gauntlet on Thanos' arm. He's walking among his crops, harvesting fruit, and putting them in a sack. He walks over to the shed, with a dragging quality to his legs, like it pains him to walk, presumably his living quarters, and tries to sit down, and we see his full face. His whole left side is burnt black with blisters; He looks ridiculously pathetic compared to when we saw him last.]
[Suddenly, Carol Danvers flies through the roof, knocking Thanos down, and grabbing his neck. Bruce in the Hulkbuster armor bursts from the ground, and grabs Thanos' Infinity Gauntlet arm. Thor flies in and slices off the Infinity Gauntlet. Rhodey flies down with Rocket and aims guns on Thanos' head.]
[Captain America walks in his Winter Soldier Outfit, with Natasha right behind him, staring murderously at Thanos. Rocket goes over to the sliced off Infinity Gauntlet, and kicks it over, as everyone realizes that there are no stones in it.]
ROCKET: Oh no.
STEVE ROGERS: Where are they?
CAROL DANVERS: Answer the question!
THANOS: The universe required correction. After that, the stones served no purpose, beyond temptation.
BRUCE BANNER: You murdered trillions! [Bruce pushes him to the ground wearing Hulk Buster armor]
THANOS: You should be grateful. [Punched by Hulk Buster]
NATASHA ROMANONFF: Where are the Stones?
THANOS: Gone. Reduced to atoms.
BRUCE BANNER: You used them two days ago!
THANOS: I used the stones to destroy the stones. It nearly killed me. But the work is done. It always will be. [sits himself a little straighter.] I am... inevitable.
RHODEY: We have to tear this place apart, he-he-he has to be lying.
NEBULA: My father is many things. A liar is not one of them.
THANOS: Ah, thank you, daughter. [Nebula looks down, a little uncomfortable.] Perhaps I treated you too harshly.
[We see Thor's face filled with rage as he raises to summon Stormbreaker, and before anyone can stop him, SLICES Thanos' head off. Thanos' limp body falls to the floor. Nebula wipes off some of the blood spatter.]
ROCKET: What... What did you do?
[Thor looks broken, realizing what he has done.]
THOR: I went for the head.
[Thor slowly walks out of the shed, no real purpose in his steps as the screen blurs to nothingness.]
FIVE
[A pause]
YEARS
[pause]
LATER
[We see shots of New York City, seemingly abandoned. There are a lot of boats gathered around a dock, all abandoned. A baseball stadium comes into view, with no life present at all. The aftermath of the Decimation is evident, and Earth has not coped well.]
[Cut to an abandoned cafe, with a poster on the wall labeled "WHERE DO WE GO, NOW THAT THEY'RE GONE?". A therapy session is taking place with Steve Rogers and seven other people.]
JOE RUSSO: So I, uh... Went on a date the other day. It's the first time in five years, you know? I'm sitting there at dinner... I didn't even know what to talk about.
STEVE ROGERS: What did you talk about?
JOE RUSSO: Same old crap, you know? How things have changed, and... my job, his job... How much we miss the Mets. And then things get quiet... He cried as they were serving the salads.
JIM STARLIN: What about you?
JOE RUSSO: I cried... just before dessert. But I'm seeing him again tomorrow, so...
STEVE ROGERS: That's great. You did the hardest part. You took the jump, you didn't know where you were gonna come down. And that's it. That's those little brave baby steps we gotta take. To try and become whole again, try and find purpose. I went in the ice in '45 right after I met the love of my life. Woke up 70 years later. You gotta move on. Gotta to move on. The world is in our hands. It's left to us guys, and we got to do something with it. Otherwise... Thanos should have killed all of us.
[Screen Title: SAN FRANCISCO]
(The camera pans to San Francisco Bridge, all the way to a self-storage facility with a sign saying "U-STORE It, SELF STORAGE", with its interior filled with stored stuff and junk until it spots Luis' van from "Ant-Man and the Wasp", behind a metallic fence with a label named "LANG". A rat crawls over the van's rear windshield and accidentally activates the controls for opening the Quantum Realm, haphazardly activating the Quantum Tunnel. The rear door busts open, flinging Lang outside the van.)
Scott Lang: (grunts as he pushes away a cushion out of his body, and deactivates the helmet, but still grunting in pain, as he sweeps away sparks from an electrical failure out of his suit, then try to stand up.) What the hell?
(He manages to stand up, as another electrical failure sparks out of his gauntlets, and now looks around in a confused look.)
Scott Lang: Hope?
(Inside a security office, a security guard (Ken Jeong) reading a book as he looks upon his security screen, seeing something going on in one of the storage facilities. In the cameras, it shows Lang in his casual clothing, shouting, waving a sign with the word "HELP" written on it.)
(Outside the facility, he pulls out a pushcart and looks back seeing the guard giving a stern look from far. He walks around until reaching his hometown, finding a post filled with MISSING posters, abandoned houses, a wrecked car, nothing but desolation. He then sees a kid in a bike pass by.)
Scott Lang: [yells] Kid! Hey kid!
[The kid stops his bike as he stares back in a serious look.]
Scott Lang: What the hell happened here?
[The kid still stares at him and is almost about to tear up, but immediately turns away from him and move on. Lang still gives the same confused look, as he arrives in somewhat a memorial called "THE VANISHED", with all the names of the people who became victims of the Decimation. As Lang arrives on one of the engraved stones, he immediately drops the handle in shock.]
Scott Lang: No. Please. Please, please. [moves on to check the other side of the engraved stone] No, no, no. No. [Lang excuses aside a young couple as he keeps on checking another engraved stone if his daughter's name is on one.] Excuse me, sorry. No, Cassie, no.
[The camera keeps panning and switching as Lang checks the rest of engraved stones if her daughter's name was in one.]
Scott Lang: [in a mantra-like] Please, please, please, please... No, Cassie. [Lang looks at the engraved stone in shock, revealing his name in it.]
Scott Lang: What?
[Scott is now seen running across the memorial, then to his hometown, only to ring a doorbell at his house, bang on the door, and try opening the door, but is found locked. Then, he sees a feminine figure appear out of a hallway inside. The figure gets closer, revealing a woman in a purple sweater, with her hand pushing towards the glass door's window, and her face filled with amazement, as she unlocked the door. It was Lang's daughter, Cassie, now a grown-up teen since the last five years.]
[Cassie, who hasn't seen him for five years, holds up his face in an emotional sight and starts to smile tearfully. Lang does the same.]
SCOTT LANG: Cassie?
CASSIE LANG: Dad? [Both of them emotionally hug each other as both dad and daughter had reunited. Then Lang shoves her back, realizing that her daughter is now a full-grown teenager.]
SCOTT LANG: You're so big!
[Both dad and daughter share a hug once more.]
[The camera cuts to a sunset in San Francisco, showing a metal face with a sign saying in its headings, "RESTRICTED AREA, DO NOT ENTER" with the subtext, "AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY BEYOND THIS POINT, SECURITY ID OR ESCORT REQUIRED", then cuts to a scene inside the New Avengers facility, someone cutting the two bread with peanut butter filling into a couple of triangles, as someone else was speaking. The camera pans up to Romanoff, now having red, long hair, over-colouring her blonde streaks, hearing Rocket Raccoon out about his status so far.]
ROCKET: Yeah, we boarded that highly suspect warship Danvers pinged.
[The camera cuts showing a few of the Avengers in holographic calls from the left to right, respectively: Nebula and Rocket Raccoon, Okoye, Danvers with a tomboyish haircut, and Rhodes.]
NEBULA: It was an infectious garbage scowl.
ROCKET: So, thanks for the hot tip. [turns to Danvers and replies back with a smirk]
CAROL DANVERS: Well, you were closer.
ROCKET: Yeah. And now we smell like garbage.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: [turns to Okoye] You get a reading on those tremors?
OKOYE: It was a mild subduction under the African plate.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Do we have a visual? How are we handling it?
OKOYE: Nat, it's an earthquake under the ocean. We handle it by not handling it.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: [turns to Danvers] Carol, are we seeing you here next month?
CAROL DANVERS: Not likely.
ROCKET: What, you gonna get another haircut?
CAROL DANVERS: [irritated] Listen fur-face, I'm covering a lot of territory. The things that are happening on Earth, are happening everywhere, on thousands of planets.
ROCKET: [murmurs to himself] All right, all right, that's a good point. That's a good point.
CAROL DANVERS: So you might not see me for a long time.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Alright. Uh, well. This channel is always active. So, if anything goes sideways... anyone's making trouble where they shouldn't... comes through me.
[Okoye agrees in her language.]
ROCKET: Okay.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Alright.
[The Avengers cut off their calls one by one...]
CAROL DANVERS: [To Rhodey] Good luck. [cuts off call]
[Except for Rhodes. Nat sighs exhausted, and sits down, as she notices Rhodes still online in the call.]
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Where are you?
RHODEY: Mexico. The Federales found a room full of bodies. Looks like a bunch of cartel guys. Never even had the chance to get their guns off.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: It's probably a rival gang.
RHODEY: Except it isn't. (Nat realizes something.) It's definitely Barton. What he's done here, what he's been doing for the last few years... I mean, the scene that he left... (Nat starts to show signs of sadness as she gradually tears up.) I gotta tell you, there's a part of me that doesn't even want to find him.
(In an abrupt moment of silence, she tries to chew her tears and emotional feelings as she eats a sandwich.)
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Will you find out where he's going next?
RHODEY: Nat...
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Please.
RHODEY: [reluctantly] Okay. [then Rhodes cuts off his]
[Nat starts to cry as she tries to hold back her tears miserably.]
STEVE ROGERS: You know I'd offer to cook you dinner but you seem pretty miserable already.
[Out of nowhere, Roger slumps over a bookshelf, in the same mood as he is in the therapy session, as Nat wipes off the tears off her face.]
NATASHA ROMANOFF: You here to do your laundry?
STEVE ROGERS: And to see a friend.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Clearly, your friend is fine.
STEVE ROGERS: You know I saw a pod of whales when I was coming up the bridge.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: In the Hudson?
STEVE ROGERS: There's fewer ships, cleaner water.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: You know, if you're about to tell me to look on the bright side. Um... I'm about you to hit you in the head with a peanut butter sandwich. [jokingly smiles, as Rogers does the same]
STEVE ROGERS: Sorry. Force of habit. [Throws his jacket, then sits down on another chair, opposite Natasha.]
STEVE ROGERS: You know, I keep telling everybody they should move on and... grow. Some do. But not us.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: If I move on, who does this?
STEVE ROGERS: Maybe it doesn't need to be done.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: [Deep in her thoughts] I used to have nothing. And then I got this. This job... this family. And I was... I was better because of it. And even though... they're gone... I'm still trying to be better.
STEVE ROGERS: I think we both need to get a life.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: [Smiling] You first.
[A camera footage pops up in front of them, showing Scott Lang with his Quantum Realm Van behind him.]
Scott Lang: Oh! Hi. Hi! Is anyone home? This is Scott Lang. We met a few years ago, at the airport? In Germany? I got really big, and I had my mask on. You wouldn't recognize me.
STEVE ROGERS: [Standing up] Is this an old message?
NATASHA ROMANOFF: [Also standing up] It's the front gate.
SCOTT LANG: Ant-Man? Ant-Man, I know you know that. I need to talk to you guys.
[Cut to Scott inside the Avengers Compound, pacing worriedly in front of Steve and Natasha.]
STEVE ROGERS: Scott. Are you okay?
SCOTT LANG: Yeah. I'm fine.
[He struggles to ask about something. He finally blurts it out.]
SCOTT LANG: Have you ever studied Quantum Physics?
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Only to make conversation.
SCOTT LANG: Alright. So... five years ago, right before Thanos, I was in a place called the Quantum Realm. The Quantum Realm is like its own microscopic universe. To get in there, you have to be incredibly small. Hope, she's my... She was my... [struggling to not tell the entire truth about their relationship] She was supposed to pull me out. And then Thanos happened, and I got stuck in there.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: I'm sorry. That must've been a very long five years.
SCOTT LANG: Yeah, but that's just it. It wasn't. For me, it was five hours.
[Steve and Nat share a quick bewildered glance.]
SCOTT LANG: See, the rules of the Quantum Realm aren't like they are up here. Everything is unpredictable. Is that anybody's sandwich? I'm starving.
[He strides over to pick up Nat's sandwich, and bites into it.]
STEVE ROGERS: Scott, what are you talking about?
SCOTT LANG: What I'm saying is, time works differently in the Quantum Realm. The only problem is right now, we don't have a way to navigate it. But what if we did? I can't stop thinking about it. What if, we could somehow control the chaos, and we could navigate it? What if there was a way to enter the Quantum Realm at a certain point in time but then exit at another point in time? Like... Like before Thanos.
STEVE ROGERS: Wait, are you talking about a time machine?
SCOTT LANG: No. No, of course not. No, not a time machine. It's more like a... Yeah, a time machine. I know it's crazy. But I can't stop thinking about it. There's gotta be some way... There's gotta be...some w... it's crazy.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Scott, I get e-mails from a raccoon, so nothing sounds crazy anymore.
SCOTT LANG: So who do we talk to about this?
[We cut to a cabin in the woods, at the bank of a lake. We see Tony Stark sitting outside what looks like a tiny shed.] TONY STARK: [Clapping his hand in a famous beat. Clap! Clap! Clap-Clap-Clap! Clap-Clap-Clap- Clap!] Chow time! [He seems to be speaking to someone unknown by the audience.] Maguna? Morgan H. Stark. You want some lunch?
MORGAN STARK: Define lunch or be disintegrated. [She puts on a silver and blue helmet similar to Iron Man's]
(A girl with long dark hair walks out in front of Tony. This is Morgan Stark, Tony and Pepper's daughter. She looks to be about 3 & 4 years of age.)
Tony Stark: Okay, You should not be wearing that, okay? That is part of a special anniversary gift I'm making for Mom. (Takes the helmet off Morgan's head. She emerges out smiling mischievously.)
MORGAN STARK: Okay.
Tony Stark: There you go. Are you thinking about lunch? I can give you a handful of crickets on a bed of lettuce.
MORGAN STARK: No.
Tony Stark: That's what you want. How did you find this?
MORGAN STARK: Garage.
Tony Stark: Really? Were you looking for it?
MORGAN STARK: No. I found it, though.
Tony Stark: You like going to the garage, huh? So does daddy. It's fine, actually. Your mom never wears anything I buy her.
(They start walking towards the house, but Tony notices a black Audi pulling coming to a stop a few meters away. Steve, Nat, and Scott get out of the car. Tony sighs. He is not looking forward to the discussion about to take place.)
SCOTT LANG: (Cut to after Scott's plan has been explained to Tony) Now, we know what it sounds like...
STEVE ROGERS: Tony, after everything you've seen, is anything really impossible?
Tony Stark: Quantum fluctuation messes with the Planck Scale, which then triggers the Deutsch Proposition. Can we agree on that?
(Scott, Steve and Nat all look puzzled. Science is barely any of their fields.)
STEVE ROGERS: (Tony giving a drink to him.) Thank you.
Tony Stark: In Layman's terms, it means you're not coming home.
SCOTT LANG: I did.
Tony Stark: No, you accidentally survived. It's a billion to one cosmic fluke. And now you wanna pull off a... What do you call it?
SCOTT LANG: (Trying to hide his pride) A time heist?
Tony Stark: Yeah, a time heist. Of course, why didn't we think of this before? Oh, because it's laughable? Because it's a pipedream?
SCOTT LANG: The Stones are in the past. We can go back and get them.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: We can snap our own fingers. We can bring everyone back.
Tony Stark: Or screw it up worse than he already has, right?
STEVE ROGERS: I don't believe we would.
Tony Stark: Gotta say, sometimes I miss that giddy optimism. However, high hopes won't help if there's no logical, tangible way for me to safely execute said time heist. I believe the most likely outcome would be our collective demise.
SCOTT LANG: Not if we strictly follow the rules of time travel. That means no talking to our past selves, no betting on sporting events -
Tony Stark: I'm gonna stop you right there, Scott. Are you seriously telling me that your plan to save the universe is based on Back To The Future?
SCOTT LANG: [embarrassed] No.
Tony Stark: Good. You had me worried there. 'Cause that'd be horse shit. That's not how quantum physics works.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Tony... We have to take a stand.
Tony Stark: We did stand. And yet, here we are.
SCOTT LANG: I know you got a lot on the line. You got a wife, a daughter. But I lost someone very important to me. A lot of people did. [His voice gets louder as he tries to sell his desperation to Tony.] And now, now we have a chance to bring her back. To bring everyone back. And you're telling me that won't even...
Tony Stark: That's right, Scott, I won't even. I got a kid.
[Morgan runs to her dad, who picks her up.]
MORGAN STARK: Mommy told me to come and save you.
Tony Stark: Good job. I'm saved. [Turning to face Cap, Nat and Scott.] I wish you'd come here to ask me something else. Anything else. Honestly, I... I missed you guys, it was... Oh, and table's set for six.
STEVE ROGERS: Tony, I get it. And I'm happy for you, I really am. But this is a second chance. TONY STARK: I got my second chance right here, Cap. I can't roll the dice again. If you don't talk shop, you can stay for lunch.
[We see Cap, Nat and Scott walking back to their car outside Tony's house.]
NATASHA ROMANOFF: He's scared.
STEVE ROGERS: He's not wrong.
SCOTT LANG: Yeah, but I mean, what are we gonna do? We need him. What, are we gonna stop?
STEVE ROGERS: No, I wanna do it right. We're gonna need a really big brain.
SCOTT LANG: (Incredulous, pointing to Tony's house) Bigger than his?
[Cut to a cafe somewhere, we see Bruce Banner, but not the same one that we remember. He looks more... Professor Smart Hulk.]
BRUCE BANNER: Come on, I feel like I'm the only one eating. [Pushing a plate forward] Try some of that. Have some eggs.
SCOTT LANG: I'm so confused.
BRUCE BANNER: [seriously] These are confusing times.
SCOTT LANG: Right. No, no, that's not what I meant.
BRUCE BANNER: [dropping the act] No, I get it. I'm kidding! I know. It's crazy. I'm wearing shirts now.
SCOTT LANG: Yeah! Wh...How? Why?
BRUCE BANNER: Five years ago, we got our asses beaten. Except it was worse for me. Because I lost twice. First, Hulk lost, then Banner lost. Then, we all lost.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: No one blamed you, Bruce.
BRUCE BANNER: I did. For years, I've been treating the Hulk like he's some kind of disease, something to get rid of. But then I started looking at him as the cure. Eighteen months in a gamma lab. I put the brains and the brawn together. And now look at me. Best of both worlds...
[Three children behind Bruce walk up to him tentatively]
GIRL: Excuse me, Mr. Hulk?
BRUCE BANNER: Yes?
GIRL: Can we get a photo?
BRUCE BANNER: 100%, little person. Come on, step up. [Holding out the phone to Scott] You mind?
SCOTT LANG: Oh, yeah.
BRUCE BANNER: Thanks, [To the Children] Say "green"! [The children and Bruce say Green as Scott snaps the photo.]
BRUCE BANNER: Did you get that?
SCOTT LANG: [leaning forward to hand back the phone] Don't you wanna grab one with me? I'm Ant-Man.
SCOTT LANG: They're Hulk fans, they don't know Ant-Man. Nobody does.
BRUCE BANNER: Wait, no, no, he feels bad. No, he wants you to...he wants to...[to one of the boys] You want to take a picture with him, right? [The boy shakes his head vigorously.]
BOY: Stranger Danger.
SCOTT LANG: He's even saying no he doesn't. I get it. I don't want it either.
BRUCE BANNER: But, come on, the kid! But he...but you...
SCOTT LANG: I don't want a picture with them.
BRUCE BANNER: [To the children] He's gonna feel bad. [To Scott] Sorry. They said they'd do it.
SCOTT LANG: I don't want it anymore.
BRUCE BANNER: No, no...you feel bad.
SCOTT LANG: Just take the goddamn phone. [Maybe next time, Scott.]
GIRL: Thank you, Mr. Hulk.
BRUCE BANNER: No, it's great kids. Thank you very much. [Same time with kids] Hulk out!
STEVE ROGERS: Bruce.
BRUCE BANNER: [Awkwardly] Dab!
STEVE ROGERS: Bruce.
BRUCE BANNER: Listen to your Mom. She knows better.
STEVE ROGERS: About we were saying...
BRUCE BANNER: Right. The whole time travel do-over? Guys, it's outside my area of expertise.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Well, you pulled this off. I remember a time when that seemed pretty impossible time, too.
[The scene cuts to Tony Stark in the kitchen washing dishes after dinner. As he finishes the last of them, stumbles upon a photo of both Stark and Parker, with Parker holding his Stark Internship certificate. Tony finally knows what he's fighting for.]
[Cut to Tony talking to his computer, generating a holographic model of something he's working on.]
Tony Stark: Look at a mod inspiration, let me see what check out. So, recommend one last sim before we pack it in for the night. This time, in the shape of a mobius strip, inverted, please.
F.R.I.D.A.Y: Processing...
Tony Stark: Give me that eigenvalue. That, particle factoring, and a spectral decomp. That will take a second.
F.R.I.D.A.Y: Just a moment.
Tony Stark: And don't worry if it doesn't pan out. I'm just kinda -
F.R.I.D.A.Y: Model rendered.
[In a complete shock of amazement, the render comes back as 99.987% successful. Tony falls back, bewildered by this discovery.]
Tony Stark: Shit!
MORGAN STARK: Shit.
[Morgan, who has been hiding behind him all this time, giggles as she repeats the word Tony just uttered.]
Tony Stark: [Whispering] What are you doing up, little mess?
MORGAN STARK: Shit.
Tony Stark: No, we don't say that. Only Mommy says that word. She coined it, it belongs to her.
MORGAN STARK: Why you up?
Tony Stark: 'Cause I got some important shit going on here. [Morgan gives Tony a taste of the incredulous] What do you think? No, I got something on my mind. I got something on my mind.
MORGAN STARK: Was it Juice Pops?
Tony Stark: Sure was. That's extortion. Great minds think alike. Juice Pops, exactly was on... [Looks back to the model, Then turns back] my mind.
[In Morgan's room]
Tony Stark: You done? Yeah, now you are. [Tony wipes Morgan's lips and pushes her head onto her pillow] That face goes there.
MORGAN STARK: Tell me a story.
Tony Stark: A story... Once upon a time, Maguna went to bed. The end.
MORGAN STARK: [Giggling] That's a horrible story.
Tony Stark: Come on, that's your favorite story. I love you tons. [Kisses Morgan on the forehead.]
MORGAN STARK: I love you 3000.
Tony Stark: [Silently] Wow. [Turns off the lamp] 3000. That's crazy. [Closed the door] Go to bed. Or I'll sell all your toys. Night, night.
[Cut to the living room where Pepper is reading a book sitting on the couch. Tony paces in front of the fireplace.]
Tony Stark: Not that it's a competition, but she loves me 3000. You were somewhere on the low 6 to 900 range. [Pepper scoffs]
Tony Stark: [Absentmindedly] What are you reading?
PEPPER POTTS: Oh, it's just a book on composting.
Tony Stark: [Still absentmindedly] What's new with composting?
PEPPER POTTS: Just -
Tony Stark: I figured it out, by the way.
PEPPER POTTS: You know, just so we're talking about the same thing -
Tony Stark: Time travel.
PEPPER POTTS: [Amazed] What? Wow... That's amazing, and... terrifying.
Tony Stark: That's right.
PEPPER POTTS: We got really lucky.
Tony Stark: Yeah, I know.
PEPPER POTTS: A lot of people didn't.
Tony Stark: No, I can't help everybody.
PEPPER POTTS: It sort a seems like you can.
Tony Stark: Not if I stop. I can put a pin in it right now, and stop.
PEPPER POTTS: Tony, trying to get you to stop has been one of the few failures of my life. [Tony smiles]
Tony Stark: I sometimes feel I should put it in a locked box and drop it at the bottom of a lake... go to bed.
PEPPER POTTS: But would you be able to rest?
[Cut to a lab in the Avengers Compound, we see Bruce fiddling with buttons on a panel. Scott is in his Ant-Man costume in front of his van, with the back open to show the Quantum Tunnel. Nat and Steve are beside Bruce]
BRUCE BANNER: Okay, here we go. Time travel test number one. Scott, fire up the uhhh... the van thing.
[Scott opens the portal]
STEVE ROGERS: Breakers are set, emergency generators are on standby.
BRUCE BANNER: Good. 'Cause if we blow the grid, I don't wanna lose Tiny here in the 1950's. [Scott, Nat and Cap give Bruce a panicked look]
SCOTT LANG: Excuse me?
NATASHA ROMANOFF: He's kidding. [In a hushed tone to Bruce] You can't say things like that!
BRUCE BANNER: Just... It was a bad joke.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: You were kidding, right?
BRUCE BANNER: [Whispering to Nat] I have no idea. We're talking about time travel here. Either it's all a joke, or none of it is. [Loudly and gives Scott a thumbs up] We're good! Get your helmet on, Scott. I'm gonna send you back a week, let you walk around for an hour, then bring you back in 10 seconds. Makes sense?
SCOTT LANG: Perfectly not confusing.
STEVE ROGERS: Good luck, Scott. You got this.
SCOTT LANG: You're right. I do, Captain America.
[Bruce presses a button, and Scott disappears into the Quantum Tunnel.]
BRUCE BANNER: On the count of three. 3... 2... 1!
[Bruce presses a button, and someone in the Ant-Man suit comes back. A teenager in appears out of it.]
TEEN SCOTT LANG: Uh, guys? This...this doesn't feel right.
STEVE ROGERS: What is this?
BRUCE BANNER: What's going on?
NATASHA ROMANOFF: That...who is that?
[He pushes another couple of buttons, trying to fix the problem.]
BRUCE BANNER: Hold on. [Panicking]
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Is that Scott?
TEEN SCOTT LANG: Yes, it's Scott!
[Teen Scott gets sucked in back into the quantum tunnel, and it appears to be an old man in the Ant-Man suit.]
OLD SCOTT LANG: Ow! My back!
STEVE ROGERS: What is this?
BRUCE BANNER: Can I get a little space here.
STEVE ROGERS: Yeah yeah. Can you bring him back?
BRUCE BANNER: I'm working on it! [Tapping the side of the button pad, trying to pull back Scott]
[After a moment, another person appears in front of them. This time, it's a baby in the Ant-Man suit.]
STEVE ROGERS: It's a baby. [seriously?]
BRUCE BANNER: It's Scott.
STEVE ROGERS: As a baby!
BRUCE BANNER: He'll grow.
STEVE ROGERS: Bring Scott back!
BRUCE BANNER: [motioning to Nat] When I say kill the power, kill the power.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Oh my god. [rapidly walk near to the generator]
BRUCE BANNER: And... Kill it!
[Nat pulls down a lever, and everything shuts down. Scott, the normal Scott, gets spewed back out again.]
SCOTT LANG: Somebody peed my pants.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Oh thank god.
SCOTT LANG: But I don't know if it was "baby" me or "old" me...Or just "me" me.
BRUCE BANNER: [holds up his his hands in a dramatic way] Time travel!
[Steve says nothing. He simply shakes his head and walks away]
BRUCE BANNER: What? I..I see this as an absolute win!
[We cut to see Steve sitting outside the Avengers Compound, staring at the floor, deep in thought. He looks beat, the only possibility of victory now not an opportunity. He looks up as a deafening noise breaks the silence in the distance. As he looks, we see an Audi R8 speeding towards the entrance. The car pulls over to Cap, but goes a bit too far, then reverses to Cap. We see Tony Stark roll down the window and look at Cap.]
Tony Stark: Why the long face? Let me guess: He turned into a baby.
STEVE ROGERS: Among other things, yeah. What are you doing here?
[He gets out of the car, and walks around to the back.]
Tony Stark: [Ignoring Steve's question] That's the EPR Paradox. Instead of pushing Lang through time, you might've wound up pushing time through Lang. It's tricky. Dangerous. Somebody should've cautioned you against it.
STEVE ROGERS: You did.
Tony Stark: Oh, did I? [acting like he did not; there's the Tony we know] Thank God I'm here. Regardless, I fixed it. [He holds up his right hand, with a device on it] A fully functioning Time-Space GPS. I just want peace. [Makes peace sign with his fingers] Turns out, resentment is corrosive, and I hate it.
STEVE ROGERS: Me too.
Tony Stark: We got a shot at getting these stones, but I gotta tell you my priorities: Bring back what we lost? I hope, yes. Keep what I got? I have to, at all costs. And... maybe not die trying will be nice.
STEVE ROGERS: Sounds like a deal. [Steve reaches out his hand to shake in the deal, in which Tony replies in the same way.]
[Tony reaches back into his trunk to pull something else out, Captain America's Shield. He makes to give it to Steve, who hesitates.]
STEVE ROGERS: Tony...
Tony Stark: Why? He made it for you. [referring to Howard Stark] Plus, honestly I have to get it out of the garage before Morgan takes it sledding.
[Steve fits his arm into the shield.]
STEVE ROGERS: Thank you, Tony.
Tony Stark: Will you keep that a little quiet? Didn't bring one for the whole team. [Hesitates] ...We are getting the whole team, yeah?
STEVE ROGERS: We're working on that right now.
[Cut to the Benatar landing in the yard of the Avenger's Compound. Scott is sitting having a Taco and some Nachos at a bench, and everything falls out of the taco as the Benatar lands. Nebula and Rocket walk out of the ship, and past Scott.]
ROCKET: Hey, humie! Where's Big Green?
SCOTT LANG: Uh, Kitchen, I think. [To himself as he sees Nebula] That's awesome.
NEBULA: [into an earpiece] Rhodey, careful on re-entry. There's an idiot on the landing zone.
[She walks away. Moments later, just as Scott is getting back to his senses, Rhodey lands right in front of him without warning. This time Scott is so surprised, he drops the whole taco.]
SCOTT LANG: Oh, God!
RHODEY: What's up, regular sized man?
[As Rhodey walks away, Bruce walks out of the Compound. Seeing that Scott dropped his lunch, he hands two tacos from his own lunch to Scott. Scott takes it while giving Bruce a puzzling look at this act of kindness.]
[Song "My Supersonic Ship" plays in the background. Cut to Bruce sitting at the back of a Utility car as they traverse the green countryside of Norway. They pass a sign labelled "WELCOME TO NEW ASGARD, PLEASE DRIVE SLOWLY.". They stop at a small town on a port. Bruce and Rocket get out of the car, and look around at the remaining Asgardians, living like normal humans at a port.]
ROCKET: Kind of a step down from a golden palace and magic hammers and whatnot.
BRUCE BANNER: Hey, have a little compassion, pal. First they've lost Asgard, then half the people. They're probably just happy to have a home. [Bruce spots Valkyrie looking over at him, and heads over to her.]
VALKYRIE: You shouldn't have come!
BRUCE BANNER: Ah, Valkyrie! Great to see you, Angry Girl.
VALKYRIE: [Noticing Bruce's change of appearance] I think I liked you better either of the other ways.
BRUCE BANNER: [motioning to Rocket] This is Rocket.
ROCKET: How you doin'?
VALKYRIE: [Eyeing Rocket] He won't see you.
BRUCE BANNER: That bad, huh?
VALKYRIE: We only see him once a month, when he comes for... [looking over to a pile of kegs of stout and other beer on the side] ... supplies.
BRUCE BANNER: It's that bad.
VALKYRIE: Yeah.
[Cut to Rocket opening a door, and him and Bruce walking through it.]
ROCKET: [Grimacing at the smell] What the... Woo! Something died in here.
BRUCE BANNER: Hello? Thor?
THOR: [From another room.] Are you here about the cable?
[He walks into view, and the audience's jaw drops. Thor, who is shirtless, has definitely put on more than a couple of pounds since we saw him last.]
THOR: The Cinemax ran out about two weeks ago, and the sports were all kind of fuzzy. [He grabs a beer]
BRUCE BANNER: Thor?
THOR: [He notices Bruce and Rocket standing there. He cracks into joy.] BOYS! Oh my God! Its so to see you! [To Rocket, trying to hug him] Come here, you little rascal! [growling]
ROCKET: No, I'm good. I'm good. That's not necessary.
THOR: Hulk, you know my friends, Miek, Korg, right?
[We see Miek and Korg sitting on a couch, PlayStation controller in hand, playing Fortnite and eating chips.]
KORG: Hey boys!
BRUCE BANNER: Hey guys, long time no see.
KORG: Beer's on the bucket. Feel free to log on to the Wi-Fi. No password, obviously. [He goes back to his game.] Thor, he's back. The kid on the TV that called me a dickhead again.
THOR: NoobMaster.
KORG: Yeah, NoobMaster69 called me a dickhead.
[Thor walks over to Korg, takes his headphones, and speaks into the mic.]
THOR: NoobMaster. Hey, it's Thor again. You know, the God of Thunder? Listen, buddy. If you don't log off this game immediately, I'm gonna fly over to your house, come down to that basement you're hiding in, rip off your arms and SHOVE THEM UP YOUR BUTT! Oh, that's right, go cry to your father, you little weasel!
KORG: [Thor brings his headphones back] Thank you, Thor.
THOR: Let me know if he bothers you again, okay?
KORG: Thank you very much. I will.
THOR: So you guys want a drink? What are you drinking? We have beer, tequila, all sorts of things.
[Thor uses Stormbreaker to open a bottle of beer and starts drinking. Bruce walks to him and places a hand on his shoulder]
BRUCE BANNER: Buddy, you all right?
THOR: Yes, I'm fine! Why, don't I look all right?
ROCKET: [Concerned] You look like melted ice cream.
THOR: [Laughs] So, what's up?
BRUCE BANNER: We need your help. There might be a chance we could fix everything.
THOR: What, like the cable? [burps] Cause that's been driving me bananas for weeks.
BRUCE BANNER: Like Thanos.
[Thor's smile slowly disappears. He puts a shaky hand on Bruce's shoulder and points at him.]
THOR: Don't say that name.
[Korg stands up and takes off his headphones]
KORG: Um, yeah. We don't actually say that name in here.
BRUCE BANNER: [quietly] Please take your hand off me. [He brushes away Thor's hand] Now, I know that... guy might scare you.
THOR: Why would I be? Why would, why would I be scared of that guy? I'm the one who killed that guy, remember? Anyone else here killed that guy? Nope. Didn't think so. Korg, why don't you, tell everybody who chopped Thanos' big head off.
[Thor walks off screen]
KORG: Umm... Stormbreaker?
THOR: Now, who's swingin' Stormbreaker?
BRUCE BANNER: I get it. You're in a rough spot, okay? I've been there myself. You wanna know who helped me out of it?
THOR: I don't know. Is it... Natasha?
BRUCE BANNER: It was you. You helped me.
THOR: [walks over and looks out the window and points, still holding his beer] Why don't you ask the, Asgardians down there, how much my help was worth. [he drops onto the sofa] The ones that are left, anyway.
BRUCE BANNER: I think we can bring them back.
THOR: Stop. stop, okay? [opens a packet on M&Ms] I know you think I'm down here wallowing in my own self-pity, waiting to be rescued and and saved. But I'm fine, okay? We're fine, aren't we? [The camera cuts to Korg and Miek eating pizza and playing once more]
KORG: Nah, all good here, mate.
[Cuts back to Thor]
THOR: So, whatever it is that you're offering, we're not into it, don't care, couldn't care less. Goodbye.
BRUCE BANNER: [from offscreen] We need you, pal.
[Thor shakes his head and ignores Bruce.]
ROCKET: [Crossing his arms] There's beer on the ship.
THOR: [pauses, but doesn't look up then puts the bottle down] What kind?
[SCREEN TITLE: TOKYO]
[After seeing a Quinjet flown to the capital, the scene cuts to a nightclub in the city of Tokyo, as the entertainment still intact, loads of dead bodies of yakuza members are seen as a hooded figure throws a shuriken at another yakuza member firing at him. They are shouting something in Japanese, as two more men come out of nowhere and draw out their UZIs.]
THUG #1: ! (Romanized: Aitsu da! Akihiko-san wo!) (Translated: It's him! He's after Akihiko!)
[Both thugs fire their SMGs as both got slain by a shuriken. A yakuza member wielding a katana charges at him in the stairs, but is immediately overthrown and slain by the Ronin. Ronin then fights another sword-wielding thug, which is thrown outside the glass, killing him. The camera passes through two more buildings as the fighting ensues with different screams, shouts, more havoc inside, and gunfire. A man in a dark raincoat jumps through the glass window, with the Ronin doing the same, as both of them lands in a dark alleyway. The man in the raincoat turns to the Ronin, who just landed after him. It was Akihiko, the leader of a yakuza gang, whose head being hunted by the Ronin himself.]
AKIHIKO:  ? (Romanized: Tem naze konna koto wo suru? Oretachi tem ni nani mo shiten daro!) (English: Why are you doing this? We never did anything to you!)
RONIN: [As he draws out his katana and reversibly wields it.] ... (Romanized: Chiky no hanbun sanosu ni yarareta... Omae wa naze buji nano...) (English: You survived... Half of the planet didn't. They got Thanos... you get me.)
[Both sides engaged in combat as Ronin pierces his stomach, but doing only minor damage to him.]
RONIN: [Also in Japanese] (Romanized:Omae mo jbun korshita daro) You're done hurting people.
AKIHIKO: [Japanese]? ! (Orera ga dato? Ki demo kurutta ka!) [he gestures to all the scattered bodies of his henchmen and chuckles] (English: WE hurt people? You're crazy!)
[Akihiko charges, which Ronin immediately blocks. Both clang swords for two seconds, seeming that the yakuza leader has the upper hand, but Ronin punches him in the face, and sword-points him to his throat, in which Akihiko is temporarily petrified.]
[He lowers down his sword as if he is about to surrender, but charges again at Ronin. Both swords clashed as Ronin slices his stomach, losing stamina, but gaining more strength from his rage.]
AKIHIKO: [in a Gatotsu-like sword stance] ! (Romanized: Shine!) (English: DIE!)
[They both draw their katanas and the sword-fight continues. Ronin is clearly a better fighter, but Akihiko is also quite experienced. They clang swords, and for a second, it looks like Akihiko has the upper hand swinging at Ronin's neck. Ronin, however, ducks and slides under the katana, and slices Akihiko in the stomach as he slides past. Akihiko, now fatally injured, drops his katana.]
AKIHIKO: ! ! ! ? (Romanized: Mate! Tasukete kure! Omae ni nan demo yaru! Nani ga hos? (English: Wait! Help me! I'll give you anything! What do you want?)
RONIN: [Raising his katana, in English] What I want... You can't give me.
[He thrusts the blade downwards into Akihiko's stomach. The body of the Japanese falls to the ground. Ronin grabs the sword, and wipes it on his gauntlet, ridding it of the blood of Akihiko. He notices someone behind him, and grabs his mask, and slides it off his head, revealing himself as Clint Barton, who has gone on a rampage since the decimation. He turns around and looks at Nat, who is standing behind him, holding an umbrella, and in casual clothes.]
CLINT BARTON: You shouldn't be here.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Neither should you.
CLINT BARTON: I've got a job to do.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Is that what you're calling this? Killing all these people isn't gonna bring your family back.
[Clint starts to look emotional, on the verge of crying.]
NATASHA ROMANOFF: We found something. A chance, maybe...
CLINT BARTON: [Now openly crying] Don't...
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Don't what?
CLINT BARTON: ...don't give me hope.
NATASHA: I'm sorry I couldn't give it to you sooner.
[We cut to the Avenger's Compound, where we see Thor in a hoodie, drinking a beer and walking through the compound's Testing Chamber. Tony is also there, walking in from behind Thor.]
Tony Stark: [To Thor] Drifting left. On the side there, Lebowski. [To Rocket, who's working on something underneath a glass platform] Ratchet, How's it going?
ROCKET: It's Rocket. Take it easy. You're only a genius on Earth, pal.
[Cut to a side room, where we see Scott, Bruce, Steve and Rhodey talking. Scott is in a white and red suit, similar to the Ant-Man suit.]
RHODEY: Time travel suit? Not bad.
SCOTT LANG: [Response to Hulk touching the suit and something red in a glass tube] Hey, hey, hey! Easy, easy!
BRUCE BANNER: I'm being very careful.
SCOTT LANG: No, you're being very Hulky.
BRUCE BANNER: I'm being careful.
SCOTT LANG: [Holding up the red glass bottle] These are Pym Particles, alright? And ever since Hank Pym got snapped out of existence, this is it. This is what we have. We're not making any more.
RHODEY: Scott, calm down.
SCOTT LANG: Sorry. We've got enough for one round trip each. That's it. No do-overs. Plus two test runs. [He accidentally presses a button, and shrinks, and then grows back to his normal size.] One test run.
[Cut to the testing chamber, where we see Steve, Nat, Tony, Scott, Bruce, Rhodey and Nebula standing at a control panel, presumably controlling the glass platform.]
SCOTT LANG: All right. I'm not ready for this.
CLINT BARTON: I'm game. I'll do it.
[Clint walks in wearing the suit Scott was moments before, the Quantum Suit.]
BRUCE BANNER: Clint, now you're gonna feel a little discombobulated from the chronoshift. Don't worry about it.
[Clint taking position on the platform]
RHODEY: Wai-Wait a second, let me ask you something. If we can do this, you know, go back in time, why don't we just find baby Thanos, you know, and... [he makes a hand gesture suggesting that they strangle baby Thanos with a rope.]
BRUCE BANNER: [Disgusted] First of all, that's horrible...
RHODEY: [In a tone that says it's what we're all thinking.] It's Thanos.
BRUCE BANNER: ...And secondly, time doesn't work that way. Changing the past doesn't change the future.
SCOTT LANG: Look, we go back, we get the stones before Thanos gets them... Thanos doesn't have the stones. Problem solved.
CLINT BARTON: Bingo.
NEBULA: That's not how it works.
CLINT BARTON: Well, that's what I heard.
BRUCE BANNER: What? By who? Who told you that?
RHODEY: [counting with his fingers] Star Trek, Terminator, TimeCop, Time After Time -
SCOTT LANG: Quantum Leap -
RHODEY: A Wrinkle in Time, Somewhere in Time -
SCOTT LANG: Hot Tub Time Machine -
RHODEY: Hot Tub Time Machine. Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. Basically, any movie that deals with time travel.
SCOTT LANG: Die Hard? No, it's not one...
RHODEY: This is known.
BRUCE BANNER: I don't know why everyone believes that, but that isn't true. Think about it: If you travel to the past, that past becomes your future. And your former present becomes the past. Which can't now be changed by your new future...
NEBULA: Exactly.
SCOTT LANG: So... Back To The Future's a bunch of bullshit?
BRUCE BANNER: [Turning to Clint] Alright, Clint. We're going in 3... 2... 1!
[A helmet similar to Ant-Man's but white and more visible face pops on Clint's head, and he goes quantum. Clint flies through the quantum realm and into an opening. He grows back to normal size, but he's at a different place, and seemingly, time.]
[Clint look around his family home, which unlike at the start of the movie, looks a lot more alive. The helmet pops off of Clint's head, and he looks around bewildered. He sees a baseball glove on the ground, presumably belonging to one of his sons, and picks it up. We hear a noise from inside the house, someone who Clint hasn't seen for five years.]
LILA BARTON: [offscreen] Cooper? Where are my headphones?
CLINT BARTON: [murmuring] Lila? [The device on his hand starts beeping, signalling the end of this visit] Lila! [He dives for the door, but only manages to open it before he shrinks back to go back to the future.]
[We hear footsteps coming towards where Clint has just disappeared, and we see Lila coming down the stairs in Avril Lavigne-like clothing, looking around, puzzled]
LILA BARTON: Yeah, Dad? [She looks around] Dad?
[Lila goes back upstairs, deciding that it was just nothing]
[Cut to the Avengers Compound, we see Clint rematerialise on the glass platform, breathing heavily and sitting on the platform.]
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Hey, hey. Look at me. You okay?
CLINT BARTON: [Holding up the baseball glove and throw it to Stark] Yeah, it worked. It worked.
[Scene cuts to the Avengers in a room with some hologram displays, showcasing each of the six Infinity Stones, sitting around a table. Tony, Steve and Bruce are pacing at the front, clearly leading the planning of the mission.]
STEVE ROGERS: Okay, so the "how" works. Now we gotta figure out the when and the where. Almost all of us has had an encounter with at least one of the six Infinity Stones.
Tony Stark: Well I'd substitute the word encounter for damn well near been killed by one of the six Infinity Stones.
SCOTT LANG: I haven't, I don't even know what the hell you're all talking about.
BRUCE BANNER: Regardless, we only have enough Pym Particles for one round trip each, and these stones have been in a lot of different places throughout history.
Tony Stark: Our history. So, not a lot of convenient spots to just drop in.
CLINT BARTON: Which means we have to pick our targets.
Tony Stark: Correct.
STEVE ROGERS: Let's start with the Aether. Thor, what do you know?
[We see Thor sitting on a chair with his sunglasses on. It is impossible to tell whether he is awake or asleep.]
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Is he asleep?
RHODEY: No, I'm pretty sure he's dead.
[Thor wakes up]
THOR: Where to start? Umm... The Aether, first, is not a stone, someone called it a stone before. It's more of a... an angry sludge thing, so... someones gonna need to amend that. Here's an interesting story though, many years ago... My grandfather had to hide the stones from the Dark Elves... [He wiggles his fingers to imitate a spooky ghost] Wooooh, scary beings. So Jane, [An image of Jane Foster pops up on the screen] Oh, there she is. That's Jane... She's... an old flame of mine... She... she stuck her hand inside a rock this one time... and then the Aether stuck itself inside her... And, she became very, very sick. So I had to take her to Asgard, which is where I'm from. And we had to try and fix her. We were dating at the time, you see. I got to introduce her to my Mother... who's dead, [Thor starts to look broken, and seems on the verge of tears] and oh you know, Jane and I aren't even dating anymore, these things happen though you know, nothing last forever, [Tony starts to push him back to his chair] I'm not done yet, the only thing permanent in life is impermanence.
Tony Stark: Awesome. Eggs? Breakfast?
THOR: I'd like a Bloody Mary, thank you.
[Cut to the Avengers sitting around a table, eating a meal, and Rocket is pacing on the table in front of everyone.]
ROCKET: Quill said he stole the Power Stone from Morag.
SCOTT LANG: Is that a person?
ROCKET: Morag's a planet. Quill was a person.
SCOTT LANG: A planet? Like in outer space?
ROCKET: Oh, look. It's like a little puppy, all happy and everything. [Imitating talking to a puppy] Do you wanna go to space? You wanna go to space, puppy? I'll get you to space.
[Cut to everyone facing Nebula in the planning room, and Nat writing notes for their plan.]
NEBULA: Thanos found the Soul Stone on Vormir.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: [In a business-like tone] What is Vormir?
NEBULA: A dominion of death, at the very center of Celestial existence. It's where... Thanos murdered my sister.
[Nat looks up, and an awkward silence falls upon the room. She writes what Nebula has just said, and Scott makes to break the awkward moment.]
SCOTT LANG: Not it.
[We see Tony and Nat lying on a table surrounded by papers, and Bruce lying down on the floor. The Time Stone pops up on the display.]
NATASHA ROMANOFF: That Time Stone guy...
BRUCE BANNER: Doctor Strange.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Yeah, what kind of doctor was he?
Tony Stark: Ear-nose-throat meets rabbit from a hat.
BRUCE BANNER: Nice place in the village, though.
Tony Stark: Yeah. Sullivan Street.
BRUCE BANNER: Hmm... Bleecker.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Wait, he lived in New York?
Tony Stark: No. He lived in Toronto. Were you even paying attention?
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Guys, if you pick the right year, there are three stones in New York.
BRUCE BANNER: [Sitting up in surprise] Shut the front door.
[Shot cuts to the holograms displaying the different location, the Soul and Power Stones in space in 2014. the Reality Stone in Asgard, 2013; and the Space, Mind, and Time Stones in New York City, 2012]
STEVE ROGERS: All right. We have a plan. Six Stones, three teams. One shot.
[He and the other Avengers walk up and look at the screens determinedly. The shot cuts to the Avengers walking in a file to the Quantum Time machine, wearing the Quantum Suits, albeit with some minor differences for different people. Rhodey has a bulkier repaint of the War machine armour.]
STEVE ROGERS: Five years ago, we lost. All of us. We lost friends... We lost family... We lost a part of ourselves. Today, we have a chance to take it all back. You know your teams, you know your missions. Get the stones, get them back. One round trip each. No mistakes. No do-overs. Most of us are going somewhere we know. But it doesn't mean we should know what to expect. Be careful. Look out for each other. This is the fight of our lives. And we're gonna win. [Tony gives Steve a look] Whatever it takes. Good luck.
ROCKET:[Refers to Steve's speaking] He's pretty good at that.
SCOTT LANG: Right? [Looks very excited]
Tony Stark: All right. You heard the man. Stroke those keys, jolly green.
BRUCE BANNER: Tractors engaged.
ROCKET: [Addressing the shrunk Benatar in Clint's hand] You promise to bring that back in one piece, right?
CLINT BARTON: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. I'll do my best.
ROCKET: As promises go, that was pretty lame.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: [Smiling excitedly] See you in a minute.
[They all shrink and enter the Quantum Realm, and they all split at different intervals, going to a different place at a different time in history.]
[The First Group which has Tony, Steve, Bruce, & Scott; travels to New York in 2012. A previous stock shot of the Chitauri snarling and the iconic circle take around our six Original Avengers assembling before panning over to a side street where Scott, Steve, Banner and Tony materialise.]
STEVE ROGERS: All right, we all have our assignments. Two Stones uptown, one Stone, down. Stay low. Keep an eye on the clock.
[2012 Hulk passes by them, smashing everything in his way. Bruce puts his hand on his face, embarrassed.] STEVE ROGERS: Feel free to smash a few things along the way.
BRUCE BANNER: I think it's gratuitous, but whatever.
[Present Bruce pretends to smash things in a sarcastic way. He tears his shirt off, and walks over to a car. He lightly punches the car, making a small dent, all the while making growling noises. He picks up a motorbike and throws it at a wall, wincing as it hits the wall.]
[Shot cuts to the Roof of the Sanctum Sanctorum where 2012 The Ancient One protects it. Bruce tries to enter through the roof before noticing her.]
THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): I'd be careful going that way. We just had the floors waxed.
BRUCE BANNER: I'm looking for Doctor Strange.
THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): You're about... five years too early. Stephen Strange is currently performing surgery about twenty blocks that way. What do you want from him?
BRUCE BANNER: That, actually.
[He points towards the Eye of Agamotto where the Time Stone is kept. The Ancient One (2012) looks at it]
THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): Ah! I'm afraid not.
BRUCE BANNER: Sorry, but I wasn't asking.
THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): You don't wanna do this.
BRUCE BANNER: Ah, you're right, I don't. [He makes a grab at the Eye of Agamotto] But I need that stone, and I don't have time to beat it-
[The Ancient One (2012) pushes Bruce's astral form out of his body. Bruce who's is now in astral form looks at The Ancient One horrified.]
THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): Let's start over, shall we?
[Cut to an aerial shot of Asgard in 2013.Then to the prison in Asgard, where we see the Loki from The Dark World, sitting in his cell. Without him noticing, Rocket and Thor creep by, past the cell. They stop at a pillar a few metres away room of where Jane Foster is]
THOR: That's Jane.
ROCKET: All right. Here's the deal, Tubby: You're gonna charm her and I'm gonna poke her with this thing, [He holds up a device.] and extract the Reality Stone and get gone, lickety-split.
THOR: I'll be right back, okay? There's a wine cellar, that's just down there. My father used to have this huge barrel of Aakonian ale. I'll see if the scullery has a couple of to-go cups...
ROCKET: Hey! Hey! Aren't you drunk enough already?
[A door opens, Thor and Rocket both try to hide. We then see ladies along with Frigga (2013) walking. Thor sees his mother.]
ROCKET: Who's the fancy broad?
THOR: It's my Mother. She dies today.
ROCKET: Oh. That's today?
THOR: I can't do this. I can't do this. I shouldn't be here. I shouldn't have come.This was a bad idea.
ROCKET: Come here. [Standing in front of him]
THOR: No, no, no. I think I'm having...I'm having a panic attack. I shouldn't be here...this is...this is a bad-
ROCKET: Come here. Right here.
[Rocket slaps Thor in the face.]
ROCKET: You think you're the only one who lost people? What do you think we're doing here? I lost the only family I ever had. Quill, Groot, Drax, the chick with the antenna, all gone. Now, I get you miss your Mom. But she's gone. Really gone. And there are plenty of people who are only kinda gone. But you can help them. So is it too much to ask that you brush the crumbs outta your beard, make schmoopy talk to Pretty Pants, and when she's not looking, suck out the Infinity Stone and help me get my family back?
THOR: Okay.
ROCKET: Are you crying?
THOR: No...Yes!
ROCKET: Get it together! You can do this. You can do this. All right?
THOR: Yes, I can.
ROCKET: Good.
THOR: I can do this. I can do it, I can't do this.
[Thor runs away.]
ROCKET: Alright, Heartbreaker. She's alone. This is our shot. [He turns back to where Thor was moments ago] Thor? Thor! Aaagh!!!
[Cut to Morag in 2014, where we see Rhodey getting off the Benatar as it lands.]
RHODEY: Alright. Bring it down low. Right on that line. That's it. Down, down.
CLINT BARTON: Hey, can we hurry it up?
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Guys, chop-chop. Come on. We're on a clock.
[Nebula walks out of the ship, apparently having directed it to its next destination.
RHODEY: All that, is really helpful. [Hugging Natasha] Take care, okay?
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Yeah.
RHODEY: Take that stone and come back. No messing around.
CLINT BARTON: [To Rhodey] Hey. You got this.
RHODEY: Let's get it done. Yes, sir.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: [Walking with Clint back into the ship] See you back.
RHODEY: You guys watch each other's six.
[Clint and Nat look back and just smile.]
CLINT BARTON: Yeah.
[They walk back into the ship, and the hatch closes. The ship takes off and speeds out of the atmosphere of Morag.]
NEBULA: The coordinates for Vormir are laid in. All they have to do is not fall out.
[In the Benatar, Clint and Nat are sitting at the front of the ship. The ship takes a jump through space and speeds up tremendously. Nat and Clint look at each other.]
CLINT BARTON: It's a long way from Budapest.
[Natasha just laughs. Back to Morag, where Rhodey and Nebula are standing where we left them.]
RHODEY: Okay, so, uhh... We just wait around for this Quill guy to show up and then he leads us to the Power Stone, is that it?
NEBULA: [Looking around] Let's take cover. We're not the only ones in 2014 looking for the stones.
RHODEY: Wait a minute, what are you talking about right now? Who else is looking for these stones?
NEBULA: My father, my sister... and me.
RHODEY: And you? Where are you right now?
[Cuts to a scene of Gamora (2014) and Nebula (2014) fighting some Korbinite soldiers.]
GAMORA (2014): [Helping Nebula up] You're welcome.
NEBULA (2014): I didn't ask for your help.
GAMORA (2014): And yet, you always need it. [Nebula (2014) laughs and Gamora's hand.] Get up. Father wants us back on the ship.
NEBULA (2014): Why?
GAMORA (2014): He's found an Infinity Stone.
NEBULA (2014): Where?
GAMORA (2014): On a planet called Morag.
NEBULA (2014): Father's plan is finally in motion.
GAMORA (2014): One stone isn't six, Nebula.
NEBULA (2014): Its a start.
GAMORA (2014): If he gets all of them...
[Thanos (2014) arrives, honking badass double-bladed sword in tow and healthy coating blood of his armour.]
THANOS (2014): Ronan's located the Power Stone. I'm dispatching you to his ship.
GAMORA (2014): He won't like that.
THANOS (2014): His alternative is death, then. [Thanos wipes his double-bladed sword] Ronan's obsession clouds his judgement.
NEBULA (2014): We will not fail you, Father.
[Gamora (2014) rolls her eyes]
THANOS (2014): No, you won't.
NEBULA (2014): I swear...I will make you proud.
[Nebula (2014) is suddenly in pain and opens up future Nebula's memories.]
RHODEY (Memory): We just, wait around for this Quill guy to show up, and then he leads us to the Power Stone, is that it?
NEBULA (Memory): Let's take cover. We're not the only ones in 2014 looking for the stones.
[Nebula (2014) shuts off the memory]
GAMORA (2014): Who was that?
NEBULA (2014): I don't know...My head is splitting...I don't know...
GAMORA (2014): Her synaptic drive was probably damaged in battle.
[Thanos walks towards Nebula and brings his blade to her throat.]
THANOS (2014): Shhh... (pointing to Nebula) Bring her to my ship.
[Cut to present Tony Stark flying around Stark Tower in the Mark 85. He scans the interior of the tower, and sees the original Avengers apprehending Loki, the backside of the iconic shot of Hawkeye pointing the bow at Loki's face while the Avengers surround him.]
Tony Stark: Got to hustle, Cap. Things look like they're just about wrapped up here. [Cut to Steve in Stark Tower, walking towards the elevator.]
STEVE ROGERS: Got it. I'm approaching the elevator now.
LOKI (2012): If it's all the same to you... I'll have that drink now.
TONY STARK (2012): All right, get him on his feet. We can all stand around posing up a storm later. By the way, feel free to clean up.
Tony Stark: Uh, Mr. Rogers. I almost forgot that that suit [A shot of Cap walking around in his 2012 suit] did nothing for your ass.
STEVE ROGERS: No one asked you to look, Tony.
Tony Stark: [whispers] It's ridiculous.
SCOTT LANG: I think you look great, Cap. As far as I'm concerned, that's America's ass. [Does a patriotic salute.]
NATASHA ROMANOFF (2012): Who gets the, uh, magic wand?
TONY STARK (2012): STRIKE team's coming to secure it.
[A Hydra team including Rumlow and Sitwell enter, known at this time as a part of SHIELD.]
SITWELL (2012): We can take that [Taking Loki's Scepter from 2012 Natasha] off your hands.
NATASHA ROMANOFF (2012): By all means. Careful with that thing.
CLINT BARTON (2012): Unless you want your mind erased. And not in a fun way.
SITWELL (2012): We promise to be careful.
SCOTT LANG: Who are these guys?
Tony Stark: They are SHIELD...Well, actually Hydra. But, we didn't know that yet.
SCOTT LANG: Seriously, you didn't? I mean...they look like bad guys.
Tony Stark: You're small, but you're talking loud.
STEVE ROGERS (2012): On my way down to coordinate search and rescue.
LOKI (2012): [Transforming into Steve for a second in imitation] On my way down to coordinate search and rescue! [Transforming back] I mean, honestly! How do you think you'll be...
THOR (2012): [Slapping on a device on Loki's mouth to make him quiet] Shut up.
Tony Stark: All right, you're up, little buddy. [Looking at the briefcase with the Tesseract] There's our stone.
SCOTT LANG: [Lying down on Tony's shoulder] Alright. Flick me.
[Tony flicks Scott onto his 2012 self, right into his beard. 2012 Tony then scratches his beard, dropping present Scott onto 2012 Tony's reactor.]
[All of the 2012 Avengers get in an elevator. Hulk makes to follow, but finds the elevator full.]
HULK (2012): Move.
THOR (2012): Whoa!
TONY STARK (2012): Whoa, whoa. Hey! Buddy. What do you think? Maximum occupancy has been reached.
THOR (2012): Take the stairs.
TONY STARK (2012): Yeah. [Hulk draws his fist back right as the elevator door closes] Stop. Stop!
[He follows through with the punch, making a dent in the wall right where the door was.]
HULK (2012): [Pissed] Take the stairs! Hate the stairs!
Tony Stark: All right, Cap. I got our scepter in the elevator just passing the 80th floor.
STEVE ROGERS: On it. Head to the lobby.
Tony Stark: Alright. I'll see you there.
[scene cuts to HYDRA agents in the elevator]
SITWELL (2012): Evidence secure. We're en route to Dr. List. No. No hitches at all, Mr. Secretary.
[Elevator opens and HYDRA agents sees Steve. Steve walks in and hits the button to continue down.]
SITWELL (2012): Captain. I thought you were coordinating search and rescue?
STEVE ROGERS: Change of plans.
RUMLOW (2012): Hey, Cap.
STEVE ROGERS: Rumlow. [everyone starts getting suspicious and has their guard up] I just got a call from the Secretary. I'm gonna be running point on the scepter.
SITWELL (2012): Sir? I don't understand.
STEVE ROGERS: We got word there may be an attempt to steal it.
RUMLOW (2012): Sorry, Cap. I can't give you the scepter.
SITWELL (2012): I'm gonna have to call the Director.
STEVE ROGERS: That's okay. Trust me. [Steve leans over to Sitwell's ear.] Hail Hydra.
[Everyone is surprised, Steve walks out of the elevator with the scepter and a smile. Cut to the building's stairwell. The Hulk looks down at the many stairs below him.]
HULK (2012): [Angrily] So many stairs!
[Cut to the lobby. The 2012 Avengers start to make their way out of the building. Tony and Scott eye them undercover.]
Tony Stark: Thumbelina, do you copy? I've got eyes on the prize. It's go-time.
SCOTT LANG: Bombs away. [Sliding down to Tony's Arc Reactor] Is... is that Axe body spray?
Tony Stark: Yeah, I had a can just for emergencies. Relax. Can we focus, please?
SCOTT LANG: I'm going inside you. Now.
ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): May I ask you where you're going?
THOR (2012): To lunch and then Asgard. I'm sorry, you are?
TONY STARK (2012): Alexander Pierce. He's the man, one of the folks behind Nick Fury.
ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): My friends call me Mr. Secretary. I'm gonna have to ask you to turn that prisoner over to me.
THOR (2012): Loki will be answering to Odin himself.
ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): Oh, he's gonna answer to us. Odin can have what's left. And I'm gonna need that case, that's been SHIELD property for over 70 years.
HYDRA AGENT: Hand over the case, Stark.
Tony Stark: [To present Scott through radio as he inhales sharply] All right, move it, Stuart Little. Things are getting dicey up here. Let's go.
TONY STARK(2012): I'm not gonna argue who's got the higher authority here, all right?
SCOTT LANG: You promise me you won't die?
Tony Stark: You're only giving me a mild cardiac dysrhythmia.
SCOTT LANG: That doesn't sound mild.
ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): I need the case.
TONY STARK (2012): I know you got a lotta pull. I'm just saying...
ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): Okay. Then give me the case.
Tony Stark: Do it, Lang!
TONY STARK (2012): Get your hands off!
Tony Stark: Window's closing. Pull my pin!
SCOTT LANG: Here goes!
[Ant-Man pulls off Stark 2012's reactor, and Tony (2012) drops the case]
ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): Stark?
THOR (2012): Stark!
[Stark 2012 falls down to the ground]
ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): Look, he's convulsing. Give him air! Medic!
Tony Stark: MEDIC! You guys, some help!
ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): Stark, you--- your chest machine?
[Ant-Man pushes the case, Loki looks at case, Tony Stark grabs the case.]
Tony Stark: Good job. Meet me in the alley. I'm gonna grab a quick slice.
[Suddenly, Hulk 2012 pushes Tony to the ground and the Tesseract slides to Loki]
HULK (2012): NO STAIRS!!!!
[Everyone runs from Hulk's rampage, Loki 2012 grabs the Tesseract and teleports it away.]
THOR (2012): You'll be fine, Stark. Stay with us! I'll try something, okay? I have no idea if it's gonna work.
[Thor 2012 uses the Mjolnir as the defibrillator on Tony Stark 2012]
THOR (2012): YES!
TONY STARK (2012): That worked a treat. That was so crazy!
THOR (2012): I had no idea if that was gonna work.
TONY STARK (2012): The case?
THOR (2012): The case. It's, uhh... Where's the case? Where's Loki? Loki!
SCOTT LANG: That wasn't supposed to happen, was it?
Tony Stark: Oh, we blew it.
THOR (2012): Loki!?
[Cut to a walkway several floors up. Steve is having trouble on his communicator.]
STEVE ROGERS: Tony, what's going on? Tell me you found that cube. [He looks up and groans.] Oh, you gotta be shitting me.
[In front of him, Steve sees his 2012 self looking back]
STEVE ROGERS (2012): I have eyes on Loki. 14th floor.
STEVE ROGERS: [Puts the case down] I'm not Loki. And I don't wanna hurt you.
[2012 Steve engages and the two Captain Americas begin to duel.]
STEVE ROGERS (2012): I can do this all day.
STEVE ROGERS: [Standing up] Yeah, I know. I know.
[Both Rogers' frisbee their shield's at one another which clang away as they brawl, inadvertently kicking away the case containing the scepter which falls down a few levels. 2012 Steve gets the upper hand on Future Steve's as they both fall down to the same level as the scepter. Future Steve's locket of Peggy falls out, Steve (2012) notices it.]
STEVE ROGERS (2012): Where did you get this?
[Steve (2012) has future Steve in a chokehold]
STEVE ROGERS: Bucky... is... alive!
STEVE ROGERS (2012): What?
[Future Steve takes the chance to sucker punch his counterpart, grab the scepter and knock Steve (2012) out, gets up and stares at him]
STEVE ROGERS: That is America's ass.
[Scene cuts back to Bruce and The Ancient One (2012). As Hulk is lying down on a beach chair who looks like he's sleeping with a hat on, Bruce Banner tries reasoning with the Ancient One to let him have the Time Stone.]
BRUCE BANNER: Please, please!
THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): I'm sorry, I can't help you, Bruce. If I give up the Time Stone to help your Reality, I'm dooming my own.
BRUCE BANNER: With all due respect, I'm not sure the science really supports that.
[The Ancient One creates a projection with a long ray that simulates the flow of time.]
THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): The Infinity Stones create what you experience as the flow of time. Remove one stone and that flow splits. [She flicks the Time Stone projection away and Shows black stream indicating a point of divergence] Now, this may benefit your reality, but my new onenot so much. In this new branched Reality, without our chief weapon against the forces of darkness, our world will be overrun. Millions will suffer. So, tell me, Doctor, can your science prevent all that?
BRUCE BANNER: No, but we can erase it. Because once we are done with the stones, we can return each one to its own timeline at the moment it was taken. So, chronologically, [Holds the Time Stone projection] in that reality, [puts it back to its spot] it never left.
[Bruce's astral form takes the projection of the removed Time Stone, replaces it back amongst the other five, and the doomed alternate dimension fades away, illustrating his point.]
THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): [still not convinced.] But you are leaving out the most important part. In order to return the stones, you have to survive.
BRUCE BANNER: We will. I will. I promise.
THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): I can't risk this Reality on a promise. It is the duty of the Sorcerer Supreme to protect the Time Stone.
BRUCE BANNER: Then, why the hell did Strange give it away?
THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): [Surprised] What did you say?
BRUCE BANNER: Strange, he gave it away. He gave it to Thanos.
THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): Willingly?
BRUCE BANNER: Yes!
THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): ...Why?
BRUCE BANNER: I have no idea. Maybe he made a mistake.
THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): Or I did. [She returns to Banner control of his Hulk body and opens the Eye of Agamotto, revealing the Time Stone] Strange is meant to be the best of us.
BRUCE BANNER: So he must have done it for a reason.
THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): I fear you might be right. [gives him the Time Stone]
BRUCE BANNER: Thank you.
THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): I'm counting on you, Bruce. We all are.
[Cut to Thanos (2014), Nebula (2014), Gamora (2014) and Ebony Maw (2014) on the Sanctuary II.]
THANOS (2014): [To Ebony Maw] Run diagnostics. Show me her memory file.
EBONY MAW (2014): Sire, the file appears entangled. It was a memory, but not hers. There's another consciousness sharing her network...another Nebula.
THANOS (2014): Impossible.
EBONY MAW (2014): This duplicate carries a time stamp... from nine years in the future.
THANOS (2014): Where is this other Nebula?
EBONY MAW (2014): In our solar system. On Morag.
THANOS (2014): Can you access her?
EBONY MAW (2014): Yes. The two are linked.
THANOS (2014): Search the duplicate's memories for Infinity Stones.
[Memory of the meeting with all the Avengers starts playing]
BRUCE BANNER (2023): And these stones have been in a lot of different places throughout history.
TONY STARK (2023): Our history. So, not a lot of convenient spots to just drop in.
CLINT BARTON (2023): Which means we have to pick our targets.
TONY STARK (2023): Correct.
[End memory.]
THANOS (2014): [To Ebony Maw] Freeze image.
GAMORA (2014): Terrans.
THANOS (2014): Avengers. Unruly wretches. What's that reflection? Amplify this, Maw.
GAMORA (2014): [Looking at a reflection of Nebula (2023)] I don't understand. Two Nebulas.
THANOS (2014): No. The same Nebula. From two different times. Set course for Morag. Scan the duplicate's memories. I want to see everything.
[Cut back to Thor and Rocket in Asgard, 2013]
FRIGGA (2013): My ladies, I'll see you after. Go on.
[Thor tries not to get caught behind a large post, but gets shocked when he sees his mother behind him]
FRIGGA (2013): [To Thor] What are you doing?
THOR: Aah!!!
FRIGGA (2013): Aah!!!
THOR: OH, God!
FRIGGA (2013): You're better off leaving the sneaking to your brother.
THOR: Yeah, I was simply just going for a walk, and uh... [Trying to hide his belly]
FRIGGA (2013): What are you wearing?
THOR: I always wear this. This is one of my favorites.
[Frigga puts her hand on Thor's face and takes a good look at him}
FRIGGA (2013): What's wrong with your eye?
THOR: Oh, my eye. That's... you remember the Battle of Haroquin? When I got hit in the face with a broadsword?
FRIGGA (2013): You're not the Thor I know at all, are you?
THOR: [Pretending] Yes, I am.
FRIGGA (2013): The future hasn't been kind to you, has it?
THOR: I didn't say I'm from the future.
FRIGGA (2013): I was raised by witches, boy. I see with more than eyes, and you know that.
[Thor attempts to hold back his tears and fails miserably.]
THOR: [voice breaking up] I am totally, totally from the future.
FRIGGA (2013): Yes, you are.
THOR: I really need to talk to you.
FRIGGA (2013): We can talk.
[They both hug each other. Scene cuts to Jane Foster waking up while Rocket sneaks behind her to extract the Aether. Scene cuts back to Thor and Frigga's conversation.]
THOR: His head was over there... His body over there... What was the point? I was too late. I was just standing there. Some idiot with an axe.
FRIGGA (2013): You're no idiot. You're here aren't you? Seeking counsel from the wisest person in Asgard.
THOR: I guess, yeah.
FRIGGA (2013): Idiot? No. A failure? Absolutely.
THOR: That's a little bit harsh.
FRIGGA (2013): You do know what that makes you? Just like everyone else.
THOR: I'm not supposed to be like everyone else, am I?
FRIGGA (2013): Everyone fails at who they are supposed to be, Thor. The measure of a person, of a hero, is how well they succeed at being who they are.
THOR: I really missed you, Mum.
[scene cuts to Rocket running away from the Asgardian soldiers]
ROCKET: Thor! I got it!
ASGARDIAN SOLDIER (2013): Get that rabbit!
THOR: Ma, I have to tell you something.
FRIGGA (2013): No, son. You don't. You're here to repair your future, not mine.
THOR: But this is about your future.
FRIGGA (2013): It's none of my business. [does she know?]
ROCKET: Hey. You must be Mom. I got the thing. Come on, we got to move.
THOR: I wish we had more time.
FRIGGA (2013): No, this was a gift. And you're going to be the man you're meant to be.
THOR: I love you, Mom.
FRIGGA (2013): I love you. And eat a salad.
ROCKET: Come on. We gotta go.
FRIGGA (2013): [whispers] Goodbye.
ROCKET: Three... two...
THOR: No, wait!
[Thor holds out his hand]
ROCKET: [To Frigga] Wh- what am I looking at?
FRIGGA (2013): Oh, sometimes it takes a second.
[Thor summons Mjolnir.]
THOR: [Happy and a little bit surprised] I'm still worthy.
["Come And Get Your Love" starts playing in the background.]
ROCKET: Oh, boy.
THOR: Goodbye, Mom.
FRIGGA (2013): [whispers] Goodbye.
[Scene cuts to Quill on Morag dancing to "Come And Get Your Love", we then pan over to Rhodey and Nebula hiding in the background watching Quill dance and sing to their perspective without music.]
RHODEY: So he's an idiot?
NEBULA: Yeah.
[Rhodey knocks out Quill and Nebula rummages around to take Quill's tool.]
RHODEY: What's that?
NEBULA: The tool of a thief.
[Nebula uses the tool to open the door that leads to The Orb A.K.A The Power Stone. Nebula tries to walk in but is stopped by Rhodey.]
RHODEY: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa...This is the part where spikes come out with skeletons on the end and everything...
NEBULA: What are you talking about?
RHODEY: When you break into a place called the temple of the Power Stone, There's gonna be a bunch of booby traps
[Nebula just shakes her head and walks in.]
RHODEY: Okay. All right. Go ahead.
[Nebula forces her hand inside the force field protecting The Orb while it melts away the exterior plating on her arm. She successfully retrieves The Orb and hands it to Rhodey all the while Rhodey watched the whole thing happened.]
NEBULA: I wasn't always like this.
RHODEY: Me either. But we work with what we got, right?
[They just both look at each other solemnly.]
RHODEY: Sync up. [They both suit up.] Three.. two.. one...
[Rhodey is the only one who disappears while Nebula is left behind unable to move, then she riddled with pain on her head. She falls to the ground.]
[Sanctuary II. 2014 Nebula is being scanned in synch with her future self. A memory is played, coming from future Nebula's head.]
BRUCE (Memory): You murdered trillions!
THANOS (Memory): You should be grateful.
NATASHA (Memory): Where are the stones?
THANOS (Memory): Gone. Reduced to atoms.
BRUCE (Memory): You used them two days ago.
THANOS (Memory): I used the stones to destroy the stones. It nearly killed me. But the work is done. It always will be. I am inevitable.
[Memory pauses.]
GAMORA (2014): What did you do to them?
THANOS (2014): Nothing. Yet. They're not trying to stop something I'm going to do in our time. They're trying to undo something I've already done in theirs.
GAMORA (2014): The stones...
THANOS (2014): I found them all. I won. Tipped the cosmic scales to balance.
[Thanos (2014) caress Gamora (2014) and she kneels down]
EBONY MAW (2014): This is your future.
THANOS (2014): It's my destiny.
[Maw resumes playing the memory]
NEBULA (Memory): My father is many things. A liar is not one of them.
THANOS (Memory): Ah...Thank you, Daughter. Perhaps I treated you too harshly...
[Thanos gets beheaded in the memory, Gamora (2014) is shocked and stands up]
THANOS (2014): And that, is destiny fulfilled.
EBONY MAW (2014): [Dangerous voice.] Sire, your Daughter...
[Maw (2014) telekinetically wraps a chain around Nebula (2014).]
NEBULA (2014): No!
EBONY MAW (2014): ...is a traitor.
NEBULA (2014): That's not me. It's not. I could never... I would never betray you. Never.
[Thanos (2014) releases the chain around Nebula (2014) neck and holds her head in his palm]
THANOS (2014): I know. And you'll have the chance to prove it.
[Thanos (2014) makes sure Nebula cannot travel back to 2023. Nebula is stuck in 2014.]
NEBULA: No! He knows! [Runs back to the ship and gets on the comms.] Barton? Barton, come in. Romanoff? Come in, we have a problem. Come on! Come in, we have a prob....Thanos knows. Thanos He knows.
[Nebula looks up in horror just to be abducted by the Sanctuary II. The scene cuts to Steve, who has just defeated himself, jumping down from a building with the scepter]
Tony Stark: Cap
[He turns around to see Tony and Scott sitting in a broken car.]
Tony Stark: Sorry, buddy. We got a problem.
SCOTT LANG: Huh. Yeah, we do.
STEVE ROGERS: Well, what are we gonna do now?
Tony Stark: You know what? Give me a break, Steve. I just got hit in the head with the Hulk.
SCOTT LANG: You said that we had one shot. This this was our shot. We shot it. It's shot. Six stones or nothing. Six stones or nothing
Tony Stark: You're repeating yourself, you know that? You're repeating yourself.
SCOTT LANG: You're repeating yourself. You're repeating yourself. You know No.
Tony Stark: Dude, come on.
SCOTT LANG: You never wanted a time heist, you went on board with the time heist
Tony Stark: I dropped the ball.
SCOTT LANG: You ruined the time heist.
Tony Stark: Is that what I did?
SCOTT LANG: Yeah!
STEVE ROGERS: Are there any other options with the Tesseract?
SCOTT LANG: No, no, no. There's no other options. There's no do-overs. We're not going anywhere else. We have one particle left. Each. That's it, alright? We use that Bye, bye. You're not going home.
STEVE ROGERS: Yeah, well if we don't try, then no one else is going home, either.
Tony Stark: I got it. There's another way. To retake the Tesseract and acquire new particles. We'll stroll down memory lane. Military installation, Garden State.
STEVE ROGERS: When were they both there?
Tony Stark: They were there at a I've a vaguely exact idea.
STEVE ROGERS: How vague?
SCOTT LANG: What are you talking about? Where are we going?
Tony Stark: I know for a fact they were there
SCOTT LANG: Who's they? What are we doing?
Tony Stark: And I know how I know.
SCOTT LANG: Guys, what's up? What is it?
Tony Stark: Well, it looks like we're improvising.
SCOTT LANG: Right. What are we improvising?
Tony Stark: Scott, get this back to the compound.
Tony Stark: Suit up.
SCOTT LANG: What's in New Jersey?
Tony Stark: 0-4,
STEVE ROGERS: 0-4 -
Tony Stark: Uhh, 0-7.
STEVE ROGERS: 0-7. -
SCOTT LANG: Excuse me...
Tony Stark: 1-9-7-0.
STEVE ROGERS: Are you sure?
SCOTT LANG: Cap. Captain. Steve, sorry, America. Rogers. Look, if you do this, and this doesn't work, you're not coming back.
Tony Stark: Thanks for the pep talk, pissant. [To Steve] Do you trust me?
STEVE ROGERS: I do.
Tony Stark: Your call.
STEVE ROGERS: Here we go.
[Cut to Steve and Tony in New Jersey, 1970]
OUR WATCHER INFORMANT, STAN LEE (1922-2018 R.I.P): [Driving past Steve and Tony] Hey, man! Make love, not war!
Tony Stark: Clearly, you weren't actually born here, right?
STEVE ROGERS: The idea of me was.
Tony Stark: Right. Well, imagine you're SHIELD, running a quasi-fascistic intelligence organization. Where do you hide it?
STEVE ROGERS: In plain sight.
[Tony and Steve are in an elevator with a lady]
Tony Stark: [Leaving the elevator] Good luck on your mission, Captain.
STEVE ROGERS: [Waiting for another floor] Good luck on your project, doctor.
ELEVATOR LADY: You're new here?
STEVE ROGERS: Not exactly.
[Cut to Tony in what seems to be a lab area and he is looking for the tesseract]
Tony Stark: [Grabbing Tesseract] Gotcha. Back in the game.
HOWARD STARK: Arnim, you in there? Arnim? Hey! Door's this way, pal.
Tony Stark: Oh, yeah.
HOWARD STARK: I'm looking for Dr. Zola. Have you seen him?
Tony Stark: Yeah, no, Dr. Zol No, I haven't seen a soul. [awkwardly bumps into a chair] Pardon me.
HOWARD STARK: Do I know you?
Tony Stark: No, sir. I'm a a visitor from MIT.
HOWARD STARK: Huh. MIT. Got a name?
Tony Stark: Uh Howard.
HOWARD STARK: Well, that'll be easy to remember.
Tony Stark: Howard Potts.
HOWARD STARK: Well, I'm Howard Stark. [Holds out hand to shake.]
Tony Stark: Hi. [Holds Howard's finger]
HOWARD STARK: Shake it, don't pull it.
Tony Stark: Yeah
HOWARD STARK: You look a little green around the gills there, Potts.
Tony Stark: I'm fine. Just, long hours.
HOWARD STARK: Wanna get some air? Hello, Potts.
Tony Stark: Yeah. That would be swell.
HOWARD STARK: That way.
Tony Stark: Okay.
HOWARD STARK: Need your briefcase?
[Tony grabs the case]
HOWARD STARK: You're not one of those beatniks, are ya, Potts?
[Cut to a younger Hank Pym in his laboratory.]
CAPTAIN STEVENS (STEVE ROGERS): Hello. Dr. Pym?
HANK PYM: That would be the number that you called. Yes.
CAPTAIN STEVENS (STEVE ROGERS): This is Captain Stevens from shipping. We have a package for you.
HANK PYM: Bring it up.
CAPTAIN STEVENS (STEVE ROGERS): Well, that's the thing, sir. We can't.
HANK PYM: I'm confused. I thought that was your job.
CAPTAIN STEVENS (STEVE ROGERS): Well, it's just Sir, the box is glowing and, to be honest, some of our mail guys aren't feeling that great.
HANK PYM: They didn't open it, did they?
CAPTAIN STEVENS (STEVE ROGERS): Yeah, they did. You better get down here.
[We then see Pym running down a hallway]
HANK PYM: Excuse me! Out of the way!
[cut back to Howard and Tony]
Tony Stark: So, flowers and sauerkraut. You got a big date tonight?
HOWARD STARK: My wife's expecting. And, uh Too much time in the office.
Tony Stark: Congratulations.
HOWARD STARK: Thanks. Hold this, will you?
Tony Stark: Yeah, sure. How far along is she?
HOWARD STARK: I don't know Uh She's at the point where she can't stand the sound of my chewing. I guess I'll be eating dinner in the pantry again.
Tony Stark: I have a little girl.
HOWARD STARK: A girl would be nice. Less of a chance she'd turn out exactly like me.
Tony Stark: What'd be so awful about that?
HOWARD STARK: Let's just say that the greater good has rarely outweighed my own self-interests.
[cut to elevator lady talking to security guards about Tony and Captain America looking fishy]
SECURITY OFFICER: And you've never seen these two men before?
ELEVATOR LADY: No, I've got an eye for this. The two of them looked fishy.
SECURITY OFFICER: Can you describe them?
ELEVATOR LADY: Well, one of them had a hippie beard.
SECURITY OFFICER: Hippie? Like Bee Gees or Mungo Jerry?
ELEVATOR LADY: Definitely Mungo Jerry.
SECURITY OFFICER: Yeah, this is Chesler. I need every available MPs on sub-level 6. We have a potential breach.
[Steve walks into a room. Feeling safe, he suddenly see's a picture of himself. Then he's surprised to see his love Margret Carter. Cut to Tony and Howard still talking to each other.]
Tony Stark: So, where are you at with names?
HOWARD STARK: Well, if it's a boy, my wife likes Elmonzo.
Tony Stark: Huh, Might wanna let that stew awwhile. You got time.
HOWARD STARK: Let me ask you a question. When your kid was born were you nervous?
Tony Stark: Wildly. Yeah.
HOWARD STARK: Did you feel qualified? Like you had any idea how to successfully operate that thing?
Tony Stark: I literally pieced it together as I went along, I thought about what my Dad did, and
HOWARD STARK: My old man, he never met a problem he couldn't solve with a belt.
Tony Stark: I thought my dad was tough on me. And now, looking back, I just remember the good stuff, you know. He did drop the odd pearl.
HOWARD STARK: Yeah? Like what?
Tony Stark: "No amount of money ever bought a second of time."
HOWARD STARK: Smart guy.
Tony Stark: He did his best.
HOWARD STARK: Let me tell you. That kid's not even here yet, and there's nothing I wouldn't do for him. Good to meet you, Potts.
Tony Stark: Yeah, Howard Everything's gonna be all right. Thank you for everything you've done for this country.
HOWARD STARK: Jarvis, have we ever met that guy?
EDWIN JARVIS: You meet a lot of people, sir.
HOWARD STARK: Seems very familiar. Weird beard.
[2014 Nebula has captured 2023 Nebula and 2014 Nebula is fighting her future self.]
NEBULA (2014): You're weak.
NEBULA: I'm you.
[Nebula (2014) throws a punch straight at Present Nebula. Gamora (2014) walks into the room.]
NEBULA: You can stop this. You know you want to. Did you see what happens in the future? Thanos finds the Soul Stone. You wanna know how he does that? You wanna know what he does to you?
NEBULA (2014): That's enough. [kicks Present Nebula to the wall and pulls out her Electric Knife.] You disgust me. But that doesn't mean you're useless.
[Nebula (2014) steals the golden plate on the side of Present Nebulas face and wears it herself. Then she walks up to Thanos, gives him a Pym Particle and shows him her new look.]
NEBULA (2014): How do I look?
[Scene cuts to Vormir 2014 where Natasha and Clint arrives.]
CLINT BARTON: Wow Under different circumstances, this would be totally awesome.
[Natasha and Clint starts walking towards the mountain and climb it.]
NATASHA ROMANOFF: I bet the raccoon didn't have to climb a mountain. CLINT BARTON: Technically, he's not a raccoon, you know.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Whatever. He eats garbage.
RED SKULL (2014): Welcome.
[Natasha and Clint draws their weapons.]
RED SKULL (2014): Natasha, daughter of Ivan. Clint, son of Edith.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Who are you?
RED SKULL (2014): Consider me a guide. To you, and to all who seek the Soul Stone.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Oh, good. You tell us where it is. Then we'll be on our way.
RED SKULL (2014): Ah, liebchen If only it were that easy.
[Red Skull leads Clint and Natasha to the cliff]
RED SKULL (2014): What you seek lies in front of you... as does what you fear.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: The stone is down there.
RED SKULL (2014): For one of you. For the other... In order to take the stone, you must lose that which you love. An everlasting exchange. A soul, for a soul.
[scene cuts to Natasha sitting on a log while Clint watches the Stonekeeper.]
CLINT BARTON: How's it going? Jesus...Maybe he's making this shit up.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: No. I don't think so.
CLINT BARTON: Why, 'cause he knows your Daddy's name?
NATASHA ROMANOFF: I didn't. Thanos left here with the stone without his daughter. It's not a coincidence.
CLINT BARTON: Yeah.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Whatever it takes.
CLINT BARTON: Whatever it takes.
[Natasha stands up.]
NATASHA ROMANOFF: If we don't get that stone, billions of people stay dead.
CLINT BARTON: Then I guess we both know who it's gotta be.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: I guess we do.
[Clint holds Natasha's hand and she reciprocates and they look at each other]
CLINT BARTON: I'm starting to think we mean different people here, Natasha.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: For the last five years I've been trying to do one thing: Get to right here. That's all it's been about. Bringing everybody back.
CLINT BARTON: Oh, don't you get all decent on me now.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: What, you think I wanna do it? I'm trying to save your life, you idiot.
CLINT BARTON: Yeah, well, I don't want you to, because I Natasha, you know what I've done. You know what I've become.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: I don't judge people on their worst mistakes.
CLINT BARTON: Maybe you should.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: You didn't.
CLINT BARTON: You're a pain in my ass, you know that?
[Both Clint and Natasha lean their heads against each other]
CLINT BARTON: Okay. You win.
[Clint smiles and knocks Natasha to the ground]
CLINT BARTON: Tell my family I love them.
[Natasha returns the favor by tackling Clint to the ground]
NATASHA ROMANOFF: You tell them yourself.
[Natasha electrocutes Clint and she runs towards the cliff. Clint gets up and shoots an explosive arrow knocking her down. Clint then runs towards the cliff and jumps. Natasha jumps after him and hooks him up to a grappling hook]
CLINT BARTON: Damn you!
NATASHA ROMANOFF: Let me go.
CLINT BARTON: No. Please, no.
NATASHA ROMANOFF: It's okay.
CLINT BARTON: Please [Natasha kicks the wall, falls off the rope, and plummets to the ground.] NO!!!
[The shot shows her body on the ground, dead. A boom in the sky sends Clint in a pool of water with the Soul Stone in his hand. He hits the ground out of sadness. His Quantum Suit activates and he shrinks back to the present day, soon joined by the others returning from their journeys. Cut to the Avengers HQ and the Quantum platform everyone looks around to see all the recovered stones.]
BRUCE BANNER: Did we get them all?
RHODEY: You telling me this'll actually work?
[There's a pause as everyone starts to realise someone is missing.]
BRUCE BANNER: Clint, where's Nat?
[The silence from Clint tells them all they need to know. The mission was completed but at a dire cost. Sadness overtakes everyone. Bruce falls to his knees and pounds the floor in grief.]
[Cut to outside HQ. Lakeside, Tony, Steve, Thor, Clint, and Bruce are mourning their fallen teammate and friend.]
Tony Stark: Do we know if she had family?
STEVE ROGERS: Yeah. Us.
THOR: (confused) What?
Tony Stark: I just asked him a question
THOR: Yeah, you're acting like she's dead. Why are we acting like she's dead? We have the stones, right? As long as we have the stones, Cap, we can bring her back, isn't that right? [GROWLING.] So stop this shit. We're the Avengers, get it together.
CLINT BARTON: We can't get her back.
THOR: Wha what?
CLINT BARTON: It can't be undone. It can't.
[Thor dryly laughs.]
THOR: I'm sorry. No offense, but you're a very earthly being. Okay? We're talking about space magic. And "can't" seems very definitive don't you think?
CLINT BARTON: (to Thor) Yeah, look, I know that I'm way outside my paygrade here. But she still isn't here, is she?
THOR: No, that's my point
CLINT BARTON: It can't be undone. Or that's at least what the red floating guy had to say. (shouts) Maybe you wanna go talk to him, okay? GO GRAB YOUR HAMMER, AND YOU GO FLY AND TALK TO HIM!
[Clint's anger is quickly replaced with grief]
CLINT BARTON: It was supposed to be me. She sacrificed her life for that goddamn stone. She bet her life on it.
[In a burst of anger, Bruce grabs a bench and hurls it clear across the lake. His anger spent, he turns to the others with a resigned look on his face]
BRUCE BANNER: She's not coming back. We have to make it worth it. We have to.
STEVE ROGERS: We will.
[Cut to inside the Avenger's Lab. Tony carefully places the stones in the gauntlet he made while Bruce and Rocket watches. With nervous precision, Tony manipulates the machine and carefully places all six stones into the gauntlet]
ROCKET: Boom!
[Tony and Bruce jump a bit, and quickly groan at Rocket's joke. Scene cuts to another room with the new finished gauntlet. Everyone is gathered around it.]
ROCKET: All right. The glove's ready. Question is, who's gonna snap their freaking fingers?
THOR: I'll do it.
SCOTT LANG: Excuse me?
THOR: It's okay.
EVERYONE: (holding up Thor) No, no, no, whoa. Stop. Stop. Wait a sec. Hey, hey
STEVE ROGERS: Wait, wait, Thor, just wait. We haven't decided who's gonna put that on yet. THOR: I'm sorry. What, we're just sitting around waiting for the right opportunity?
SCOTT LANG: We should at least discuss it.
THOR: No, no, sitting here staring at that thing is not gonna bring everybody back. I'm the strongest Avenger, okay? So this responsibility falls upon me. It's my duty.
Tony Stark: It's not about that
THOR: (hushes everyone up) It's not that Stop it! Just let me! (he tears up) Just let me do it. Just let me do something good. Something right.
TONY STARK : Look It's not just the fact that that glove is channeling enough energy to light up a continent, I'm telling you, you're in no condition.
THOR: What do you What do you think is coursing through my veins right now?
RHODEY: Cheez Whiz?
THOR: Lightning.
Tony Stark: Yeah.
BRUCE: Lightning won't help you, pal. It's gotta be me.
[Thor lets go of Tony. Sorry, Thor. Maybe next time.]
BRUCE BANNER: You saw what those stones did to Thanos. It almost killed him. None of you could survive.
STEVE ROGERS: How do we know you will?
BRUCE BANNER: We don't. But the radiation's mostly gamma. [He takes a good look at the gauntlet] It's like...I was made for this.
[Nebula (2014) sneaks off to the Quantum portal and activates it]
Tony Stark: Good to go, yeah?
BRUCE BANNER: Let's do it.
Tony Stark: You remember everyone Thanos snapped away five years ago and just bringing them back to now, today. Don't change anything from the last five years.
BRUCE BANNER: Got it.
[Everyone gets ready and suits up]
Tony Stark: F.R.I.D.A.Y., do me a favor and activate Barn Door Protocol. Will you?
F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Yes, boss.
[Avengers facility goes on lockdown]
BRUCE BANNER: Everybody comes home.
[Bruce puts on the gauntlet, which nanobotically expands to fit his hand, and the power surge overwhelms him. He grunts in pain.]
THOR: Take it off! Take it off!
STEVE ROGERS: No, wait. Bruce, are you okay?
Tony Stark: Talk to me, Banner.
BRUCE BANNER: I'm okay. I'm okay.
[Thor gives a double thumbs up, scene cuts to Nebula (2014) opening the Quantum Tunnel and brings the Sanctuary II to the present. Bruce screams, fighting through the intense pain coursing through his body courtesy of the gauntlet, and manages to snap his fingers. He faints and the gauntlet slides off his arm, Clint kicks it away.]
STEVE ROGERS: Bruce!
Tony Stark: Don't move him.
BRUCE ROGERS: [Bruce holds onto Steve's arm] Did it work?
THOR: Worth a shot. It's over. It's okay.
[Scott walks towards the outside windows and sees plants and birds. Clint hears his phone ringing and sees it's his wife calling]
CLINT BARTON: (struggling to speak from sheer happiness) Honey. Honey.
SCOTT LANG: Guys I think it worked!
[Bruce opens his eyes and sees the Sanctuary II up in the sky and a single missile heading towards the base blowing away Scott away. Then a continuous array of missiles destroys the base completely and everyone sinks below to the underground.]
[The camera pans over to see Bruce holding up tons of debris from collapsing on top of the other Avengers with his one good arm. Some debris is stuck on top of Rocket.]
ROCKET: I can't breathe. I can't breathe! I can't breathe.
RHODEY: Canopy. Canopy. Canopy. [Rhodey gets out of his damaged suit]
BRUCE BANNER: Rhodey, Rocket, get outta here!
[Rhodey crawls over to help Rocket while taking a rebar as leverage to lift the debris off Rocket]
ROCKET: Hurry up! Hurry up! Come on!
[Rhodey gets Rocket out and they both sigh in relief]
BRUCE BANNER: Rhodey!
[A flood engulfs both Rhodey and Rocket]
[Scene cuts to Scott who survives the blast by shrinking.]
RHODEY: Mayday, mayday! Does anybody copy? We're in the lower level, it's flooding!
SCOTT LANG: What?
RHODEY: We're drowning! Does anybody copy? Mayday!
SCOTT LANG: Wait! I'm here! I'm here, can you hear me?
[Scene cuts to Clint in the sewer system and trying to get his bearings. He flashes a light upwards to see what happened.]
CLINT BARTON: Cap?
[Clint finds the gauntlet is with him but senses he's not alone down there. He shoots an arrow with light towards the dark tunnel and finds hordes of Outriders.]
CLINT BARTON: [under his breath] Damn.
[Clint takes the gauntlet and runs towards the opposite direction while the Outriders chase after him.]
[Scene cuts to the Sanctuary II and it beams Thanos (2014) fully armoured to the ground. Nebula walks towards him.]
THANOS (2014): Daughter.
NEBULA (2014): Yes, Father.
THANOS (2014): So, this is the future. Well done.
[Nebula (2014) takes off the orange plate on her head and throws it away]
NEBULA (2014): Thank you, Father. They suspected nothing.
[Thanos (2014) plants his double-bladed sword on the ground, takes off his helmet and places on top of the sword's edge.]
THANOS (2014): The arrogant never do.
[Thanos then sits down]
THANOS (2014): Go. Find the stones. Bring them to me.
NEBULA (2014): What will you do?
THANOS (2014): Wait.
[Nebula (2014) proceeds to go find the stones and the camera pans over the Sanctuary II and we see Gamora (2014) watching. Gamora (2014) heads over to where Nebula is being held prisoner.]
GAMORA (2014): Tell me something. In the future, what happens to you and me?
NEBULA: I tried to kill you. Several times.
[Gamora (2014) rolls her eyes]
NEBULA: But eventually, we become friends. We become sisters.
[Gamora (2014) holds out her hand.]
GAMORA (2014): Come on. We can stop him.
[Nebula takes it]
[Scene cuts to Tony walking towards Steve who's unconscious on the ground.]
Tony Stark: Come on, buddy. Wake up. That's my man. [He has Cap's shield.] You lose this again, I'm keeping it.
STEVE ROGERS: What happened?
Tony Stark: You messed with time. It tends to mess back. You'll see.
[Tony helps Steve on his feet. They walk up to join Thor, who has been observing Thanos (2014) from a distance.]
Tony Stark: What's he been doing?
THOR: Absolutely nothing.
STEVE ROGERS: Where are the stones?
Tony Stark: Somewhere under all this. All I know is he doesn't have them.
STEVE ROGERS: So we keep it that way.
THOR: You know it's a trap, right?
Tony Stark: Yeah. And I don't much care.
THOR: Good. Just as long we are all in agreement. [Thunder cracks as Thor stretches out both hands to summon both Stormbreaker and Mjolnir (2013). His casual clothes transform into his armour and cape, with his beard getting some braid treatment.] Let's kill him properly this time.
[The Big Three walk over to confront Thanos face to face]
THANOS (2014): You could not live with your own failure. And where did that bring you? Back to me. I thought by eliminating half of life, the other half would thrive. But youve shown me thats impossible. And as long as there are those that remember what was, there will always be those that are unable to accept what can be. They will resist.
Tony Stark: Yep. We're all kinds of stubborn.
THANOS (2014): I'm thankful. Because now, I know what I must do. [stands up] I will shred this universe down to its last atom. [Thanos (2014) puts on his helmet] And then With the stones you've collected for me, create a new one. Teeming with life, but knows not what it has lost but only what it has been given. [Thor lights himself up.] A grateful universe.
STEVE ROGERS: Born out of blood.
THANOS (2014): They'll never know it. Because you won't be alive to tell them.
[The fighting starts, and Thor and Tony go straight at Thanos (2014). Meanwhile, Hulk is under all of the mess trying to hold up the structure. Rhodey and Rocket are breathing for their lives.]
RHODEY: See you on the other side, man.
SCOTT LANG: Hang on! I'm coming!
[Hawkeye is running with the infinity gauntlet. He blows the place, and escapes before the Outriders overwhelm him. He sees Nebula.]
CLINT BARTON: Oh, hey I know you.
[Clint gives her the gauntlet. then she puts her hand on her earpiece]
NEBULA: Father.
[Clint gasped and finds out that she's from 2014]
NEBULA (2014): I have the stones.
CLINT BARTON: What?!
[Clint tries to get up but Nebula (2014) steps her foot down on him an points her gun at him]
GAMORA (2014): Stop.
[Gamora (2014) come around the corner]
NEBULA (2014): You're betraying us?
[With her hands up, Nebula joins Gamora (2014). Nebula (2014) points her gun at her future self]
NEBULA: You don't have to do this.
NEBULA (2014): I am this.
GAMORA (2014): No, you're not.
NEBULA: You've seen what we become.
GAMORA (2014): Nebula, listen to her.
NEBULA: You can change.
NEBULA (2014): He won't let me.
[Nebula (2014) points a gun at Gamora (2014)]
GAMORA (2014): NO!
[Present Nebula shoots Nebula (2014) and she dies. Hawkeye picks up the Infinity Gauntlet]
[Cut to the 3 heroes battling Thanos]
Tony Stark: Okay, Thor. Hit me.
[Thor bangs his 2 hammers together combined with his lightning. Tony's suit sucks up the energy and he shoots it out using his hands and his body. Thanos twirls his blade really fast to divert the energy. Thor grabs Stormbreaker and uses it to bat Mjlnir to hit Thanos. Thanos uses Tony as a shield resulting in damage to his system.]
F.R.I.D.A.Y: Boss, wake up!
[Steve tries to attack Thanos but is easily shielded away by the Mad Titan. Thor's attack on Thanos is blocked by his sword. Thor is beaten and choked by Thanos, as he punches him. Mjolnir is flicked away as Thanos relentlessly beats up Thor, throwing him into a tree and socking him before throwing him over rubble and socking him again. Thor tries to grab Stormbreaker but Thanos grabs it and uses it against Thor as he tries to defend himself. Mjlnir (2013) starts to float off the ground while Thanos is digging it into Thor, when suddenly Mjolnir flies into Thanos, zooms past, stops, and flies back, both look on in amazement as Steve picks up the hammer.]
THOR: I knew it!
[Thanos' (2014) kicks Thor to the ground and proceed to battle Steve dual wielding both his shield and Mjolnir (2013)]
[Steve proceeds to charge at Thanos swinging Mjolnir (2013) and hitting Thanos in the face knocking him down. Steve throws his shield and Thanos (2014) deflects, Steve throws Mjolnir (2013) to his shield creating a shockwave and knocking Thanos (2014) off his feet. Steve goes on the offensive on Thanos, throwing his shield first at Thanos and quickly hitting it back at him again with Mjolnir. He lines his arm back up and underarms a channel of lightning on Thanos who eventually gets the upper hand as he removes his helmet, stabs Steve on the leg and knocks Mjolnir (2013) out of his hand. Thanos proceed to destroy Steve's shield with his double-bladed sword and throws him across the battlefield.]
[Steve staggeredly tries to get up.]
THANOS (2014): In all my years of conquest violence slaughter It was never personal. But I'll tell you now what I'm about to do to your stubborn, annoying little planet I'm gonna enjoy it. Very, very much.
[Thanos' (2014) entire army is summons to the ground which include the Children of Thanos, Chitauri, Sakaarans, Outriders and Chitauri Gorillas. Upon seeing the army descending on Earth, Steve slowly gets back to his feet. With a fierce determination, he tightens his broken shield to his arm and stands against Thanos' giant army alone. Suddenly, a crackling comes in on his communicator.]
SAM WILSON: Hey, Cap, you read me?
[Steve stops and looks around]
SAM WILSON: Cap, it's Sam. Can you hear me?
[A yellow portal begins to form behind him.]
SAM WILSON: On your left.
[Steve looks behind to see the portal on his left side. Three figures step through; Okoye, Shuri, and Black Panther, fully restored and ready to fight. Steve and the revived Wakandans share a look when Sam zooms in from above in his Falcon armor. As he does, we see dozens more portals opening up all around the battlefield. Through one of these, we see Doctor Strange descend in. He is joined by Drax, Mantis, Star Lord, and Spider-Man. Everyone watches in confusion and awe as more and more heroes arrive from all corners of the universe, all backed up with forces of their own including Black Panther and his Wakandan army, Valkyrie and the Asgardians, Wong and the Masters of the Mystic Arts and several Ravager ships. Amongst the throngs of heroes we see Bucky, Groot, the Scarlet Witch, the Wasp, and Pepper Potts (clad in her own iron suit) arrive. Nearly every hero has magically been transported to the battlefield to face Thanos' hordes.]
DOCTOR STRANGE: Is that everyone?
WONG: What, you wanted more?
[Giant-Man emerges from the rubble of the Avengers facility with Professor Hulk, War Machine, and Rocket. The Avengers, Guardians, Wakandans, Asgardians, and Ravagers take up battle positions. The heroes standing across Thanos' forces.]
STEVE ROGERS: AVENGERS! [he summons Mjolnir] assemble.
[Thor makes a battle cry, as does Black Panther and the heroes charge, the Avengers theme swelling with their stride. Thanos raises his sword towards them, commanding his army to charge as well. Then both sides collide. The camera switches between the meet-line, Drax and Korg, Pepper and Tony, all which are battling against Thanos' army.]
[Cuts to Steve and Thor fighting. Steve takes Stormbreaker but Thor flies to him and passes Mjolnir]
THOR: No, no, give me that. You have the little one. [best meme ever]
[Later, Tony Stark is seen fighting some of Thanos' army. But Cull Obsidian punches him to the ground, then Giant-Man stomps him flat and Peter Parker runs to Tony.]
PETER PARKER: Hey! Holy cow! You will not believe what's been going on. Do you remember when we were in space? And I got all dusty? I must've passed out, Because I woke up, and you were gone. But Doctor Strange was there, right? He was like, "It's been five years. Come on, they need us." And then he started doing the yellow sparkly thing that he does all the time TONY STARK: He did? Oh, God.
PETER PARKER: What are you doing?
[Tony hugs Peter, making him shocked, but he hugs Tony back.]
PETER PARKER: Oh, this is nice.
[Cut to Star-Lord Fighting a bunch of Sakaarans, killing all of them except one, which makes him fall over, but a off-screen shot kills him and he drops on Peter. Peter gets up and sees Gamora (2014). Thinking its present Gamora, he is shocked.]
PETER QUILL: Gamora? [Peter slowly approaches Gamora (2014)] I thought I lost you.
[Peter touches Gamora's hair, not knowing she isn't present Gamora. In response, Gamora (2014) grabs Peter's hand firmly off her hair.]
PETER QUILL: Ow.
GAMORA (2014): [Kicks Peter in the nuts, slightly hurting Peter] Don't touch [Kicks him again, this time harder] me!
[Peter falls from the pain, while Gamora (2014) wipes her face.]
PETER QUILL: You missed the first time Then you got them both the second time.
GAMORA (2014): [to Nebula] This is the one? Seriously?
NEBULA: The choices were him, or a tree.
[Peter pointing to Gamora (2014) in confusion, then to Nebula in question, and then back to Gamora (2014).]
[Later, Clint is seen running with the gauntlet]
CLINT BARTON: Cap, what do you want me to do with this damn thing?
STEVE ROGERS: Get those stones as far away as possible!
BRUCE BANNER: No! We need to get them back where they came from.
Tony Stark: No way to get them back. Thanos destroyed the quantum tunnel.
SCOTT LANG: Hold on! [Scott shrinks to normal size and pulls out a remote.] That wasn't our only time machine.
[Scott presses the button, which activates Luis's van's Horn with the song La Cucaracha, which is heard from afar. Hearing so, Cap goes to higher ground.]
STEVE ROGERS: Anyone see an ugly, brown van up there?
VALKYRIE: Yes! But you're not gonna like where it's parked!
Tony Stark: Scott, how long you need to get that thing working?
SCOTT LANG: Maybe ten minutes.
STEVE ROGERS: Get it started. We'll get the stones to you.
HOPE VAN DYNE: We're on it, Cap.
[Scott and Hope share a look and they shrink. Scott grabs Hope, and they fly to the van. Doctor Strange traps a group of Chitauri in his magic and sends them through portals as Tony joins him.]
Tony Stark: Hey. You said one out of 14 million, we win, yeah? Tell me this is it.
DOCTOR STRANGE: If I tell you what happens, it won't happen.
Tony Stark: You better be right.
[Cut to Scott and Hope entering a small hole in the van's window, getting to the drive seat, regrowing and trying to activate the Quantum Tunnel.]
THE WASP: It's a mess back here.
SCOTT LANG: It's it's dead.
THE WASP: What?
SCOTT LANG: It's dead. I have to hotwire it.
THANOS (2014): Where's Nebula?
CORVUS GLAIVE: She's not responding.
EBONY MAW (2014): [pointing.] Sire!
[Thanos sees the gauntlet. Clint rushes through Outriders, before finding himself surrounded. He is saved by Black Panther.]
T'CHALLA: Clint! Give it to me.
[Clint gives the Gauntlet to T'Challa, and he runs towards the van while fighting Thanos' army. Eventually he is stopped by the double edged sword, boomeranged by Thanos. When it gets back to him, he charges T'Challa, but is stopped by Wanda, who is filled with anger for the loss of Vision.]
WANDA MAXIMOFF: You took everything from me.
THANOS (2014): I don't even know who you are.
WANDA MAXIMOFF: You will.
[With her powers, Wanda picks up some debris on the ground and tries to crush Thanos with it.] [Ebony May grabs the Gauntlet with his telekinesis of bricks. He does the same for T'Challa, trying to stop him from getting the glove.]
PETER PARKER: I got it!
[Peter grabs the Gauntlet with his webshooters and is surrounded by Chitauri.]
PETER PARKER: Activate Instant Kill!
[The Robotic Spider Legs come out of his back, stabbing the Chitauri.]
[Thanos tries to kill Wanda with his double-bladed sword, but Wanda pushes it away. She then uses her powers to try and crush Thanos.]
THANOS (2014): Rain fire!
CORVUS GLAIVE: But sire, our troops!
THANOS (2014): Just do it!
[The spaceship cannons appear and start to fire at the heroes. It flings Maximoff away. Wong makes a shield and holds it up. The others do the same. Suddenly one of the cannons hit a dam. Water starts to flood into the battlefield. Pepper is the first to notice.]
PEPPER POTTS: Uh, is anyone else seeing this?
[Doctor Strange looks at the broken dam and uses his magic to stop the water from flooding the battlefield. Meanwhile, Peter is still battling the Chitauri.]
PETER PARKER: I got this. I got this! Okay, I don't got this. Help! Somebody, help!
STEVE: Hey, Queens, heads up.
[Steve throws Mjolnir, and Peter shoots a web and glides along, then Pepper Potts catches him]
PEPPER POTTS: Hang on. I got you, kid. [She drops him on Valkyrie's Pegasus]
PETER PARKER: Hey! Nice to meet you OH, MY GOD!
[The cannons knock Peter Parker off the Pegasus, then they turn to face something in the sky as all the cannons start shooting at something.]
SAM: What the hell is this?
Tony Stark: F.R.I.D.A.Y., what are they firing at?
F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Something just entered the upper atmosphere.
[A bright light of thundering energy comes surging down as Carol Danvers flies through the ship, and it results in an explosion and the ship crash-landing in the lake]
ROCKET: Oh, yeah!
STEVE ROGERS: Danvers, we need an assist here.
[Cut to Scott finally activating the Quantum Tunnel. Then cut to Carol Danvers landing near Peter, who is on the ground, weirdly hugging the gauntlet with his body.]
PETER PARKER: Hi. I'm Peter Parker.
CAROL DANVERS: Hey, Peter Parker. You got something for me?
PETER PARKER: [Gets up and passes her the gauntlet] I don't know how you're gonna get it through all that.
[Wanda arrives, Valkyrie flying on her Pegasus as she arrives.]
WANDA MAXIMOFF: Don't worry.
OKOYE: She's got help.
[Pepper lands next to Okoye, followed by Mantis, Shuri, the Wasp, 2014 Gamora and Nebula. Thanos' army charges while the women help Carol Danvers go through the Outriders, Sakaarans and Chitauri. 2014 Gamora takes out a gorilla, while Okoye takes out Corvus Glaive. Wanda and Valkyrie destroy two leviathans. Carol Danvers then starts flying towards the van with the Gauntlet, flying past enemies and going through enemy blockades that are in her way with ease. Thanos, seeing this, starts running to Carol Danvers, but is stopped by Pepper, Shuri and The Wasp, who blast him backwards. Thanos, after seeing Carol Danvers fly past him, throws his double sword at the van, destroying it and the quantum realm tunnel, throwing Carol Danvers backwards and losing her grip on the Gauntlet, which falls to the ground. Doctor Strange steadies the water after the explosion. In the final brawl for the Stark Gauntlet, Stark moves one of Thanos' enemies aside and sees the Gauntlet. He runs to get it, but sees Thanos, who Stark tackles. Thanos smacks Stark away, knocking him out. Then Thor arrives with Stormbreaker and 2013 Mjolnir in an attempt to pin Thanos' arm down, with assistance from Captain America. However, Thanos overpowers them and knocks them both out. After picking up the Gauntlet, Carol Danvers arrives, punching away at Thanos while he is holding the Gauntlet. She keeps punching him, but Thanos grabs her by the arm and flings her away. Thanos puts on the gauntlet, gamma radiation from the stones eating at him as he tries to snap, but Carol Danvers arises again, and stops his fingers from snapping, opening up his hand similar to what Captain America did in Avengers: Infinity War. Thanos headbutts her, but it does nothing. Just as Carol Danvers is gaining the upper hand by rising up and forcing Thanos onto his knees, Thanos pulls the Power Stone out of the Gauntlet and uses it in his free hand to hit Carol Danvers away. Stark looks in question at Strange, who simply raises one finger, reminding him that the one win over Thanos he foresaw is now at risk. Or is it? Stark nods. Thanos puts the Power Stone back into the Gauntlet, yelling from the gamma radiation coursing through him, until Stark makes one last attack on Thanos, pulling on the Gauntlet before Thanos punches him away.]
THANOS (2014): I am inevitable.
[Thanos snaps his fingers, but nothing happens except a metallic "clink." He sees the Infinity Stones are missing. Tony has the stones on his own gauntlet, the gamma radiation coursing through him, to Thanos' shock.]
Tony Stark: And I am Iron Man.
[Tony snaps his fingers with a loud "CLANG" and a blinding flash of white. Rocket fires at a Leviathan and before it devours him, it crumbles into ash. The Black Order starts crumbling to ash. T'Challa and Quill look around in surprise; Steve looks on in exhaustion, knowing that they have won. Thanos, in horror, looks around and sees his entire army disintegrate. He looks at Steve, who just stares at him. Thanos sits down and mourns before slowly being erased from existence himself.]
[Cut back to Tony. The power of the gauntlet raw energy has left his entire right side fatally injured. He stumbles for a bit before his body collapses besides a pile of debris. Rhodey soon flies in and goes up to Tony to see his long time colleague and friend fading away. He bows his head, knowing the damage was done. Peter Parker soon flies in and sees Tony collapsed on the ground.]
PETER PARKER: Mr. Stark? [He runs up to his fallen mentor. Tears start to form in his eyes] Hey Mr. Stark? Can you hear me? It's Peter. Hey. We won, Mr. Stark We won, Mr. Stark. We won. You did it, sir. You did it. [He kneels]
[Tony is unresponsive. Peter breaks down and hugs him.]
PETER PARKER: I'm sorry Tony
[Peter is gently led aside to grieve. Pepper Potts sits in front of the fading Iron Man.]
PEPPER POTTS: Hey.
[Tony is barely able to move his head, but manages to look Pepper in the eyes]
Tony Stark: [quietly] Hey, Pep..
[Pepper places her hand on Tony's Arc Reactor and Tony rests his hand on hers. Pepper takes a good look at Tony's fatal injuries.]
[pepper kneels]
PEPPER POTTS: F.R.I.D.A.Y.?
F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Life functions critical.
[Tony smiles with tears in his eyes.]
PEPPER POTTS: Tony. Look at me. [She makes sure Tony gets a long look at her smiling face] We're gonna be okay. You can rest now.
[With that acknowledgement, Tony's arc reactor flickers off for good. Pepper can no longer contain her grief and starts crying on his shoulder. Tony Stark, Iron Man, Earth's Best Defender, died. All the heroes gather, and kneel in honor of Tony.]
[We cut to a montage showing reunions and celebrations. At Clint Barton's farm, he joyfully reunites with his family. At Peter Parker's school, Peter and Ned meet in the hallways. They share a handshake before giving each other a heartfelt hug. In San Francisco, Scott Lang watches fireworks with Cassie Lang and Hope Van Dyne. In Wakanda, T'Cahlla, Shuri, and Ramonda oversee the celebrations from their balcony. Over all this, we hear Tony's voice narrating.]
TONY STARK (voiceover): Everybody wants a happy ending, right? But it doesn't always roll that way. Maybe this time. I'm hoping if you play this back, it's in celebration. I hope families are reunited, I hope we get it back, and something like a normal version of the planet has been restored. If there ever was such a thing. God, what a world. Universe, now. If you told me ten years ago that we weren't alone, let alone, you know, to this extent, I mean, I wouldn't have been surprised. But come on, you know? The epic forces of darkness and light that have come into play. And, for better or worse, that's the reality Morgan's gonna have to find a way to grow up in.
[Cut to the Stark household. Pepper, Morgan, Happy Hogan, and Rhodey all watch Tony's holographic message being projected from his Iron Man helmet. Tony is sitting down recording the message.]
TONY STARK (hologram): So I thought I'd probably better record a little greeting... In the case of an untimely death on my part. I mean, not that, death at any time isn't untimely. This time travel thing that we're gonna try and pull off tomorrow, it's it's got me scratching my head about the survivability of it all. That's the thing. Then again, that's the hero gig. Part of the journey is the end. [Tony suddenly gets up walking towards his camera] What am I even trippin' for? Everything's gonna work out exactly the way it's supposed to. [He leans down and smiles. He is looking straight at Morgan] I love you 3,000.
[The message ends and the hologram cuts out.]
[Cut to outside the cottage. Pepper carries a wreath out of the house to an audience waiting outside for the intimate funeral. She lays the wreath on the lake. On top of the wreath is Tony's first arc reactor which Pepper had framed with the words "Proof That Tony Stark Has a Heart" back in 2008. The camera slowly pans to see Pepper, Morgan, Happy Hogan, & Rhodey, all being joined by Steve Rogers, Peter Parker, May Parker, Thor, Bruce Banner, Doctor Strange, Wong, Scott Lang, Hope Van Dyne, Janet Van Dyne, Hank Pym, Peter Quill, Nebula, Rocket, Teenage Groot, Drax, Mantis, T'Challa, Okoye, Shuri, Clint Barton & his family, Wanda Maximoff, Bucky Barnes, Sam Wilson, Harley Keener, Secretary Ross, Maria Hill, Carol Danvers, and Nick Fury, silently watching the wreath float away.]
[Cut to Clint and Wanda, standing by the riverside shortly afterwards.]
CLINT: You know, I wish there was a way that I could let her know. That we won. [Looks over to Wanda.] We did it.
WANDA MAXIMOFF: She knows They both do.
[Clint gives her a side hug and Wanda reciprocates.]
[scene cuts to Happy and Morgan.]
HAPPY: How you doing, Squirt?
MORGAN STARK: Good.
HAPPY: You good? Okay. You hungry?
MORGAN STARK: Mm. Hm.
HAPPY: What do you want?
MORGAN STARK: Cheeseburgers.
HAPPY: You know your dad liked cheeseburgers? I'm gonna get you all the cheeseburgers you want.
MORGAN STARK: Okay.
[Following the funeral for Tony, we cut to Thor and Valkyrie in New Asgard.]
VALKYRIE: So, when can we expect you back?
THOR: Um about that
VALKYRIE: Thor. Your people need a king.
THOR: No, they already have one.
VALKYRIE: That's funny. You're being serious?
[Thor nods his head]
THOR: It's time for me to be who I am rather than who I'm supposed to be. But you, you're a leader. That's who you are.
VALKYRIE: You know I'd make a lot of changes around here.
THOR: I'm counting on it. Your Majesty.
[Thor offers Valkyrie a farewell handshake]
VALKYRIE: What will you do?
THOR: I'm not sure. For the first time in a thousand years, I I have no path. I do have a ride, though.
[Camera pans to the Benatar parked on the cliff]
ROCKET: Move it or lose it, hairbag.
[scene cuts to Quill searching for Gamora on the screen as Thor walks in he closes it]
THOR: Well, here we are. Tree! Good to see you. Well [Thor removes his shades and taps Quill on the shoulder] The Asgardians of the Galaxy, back together again. Where to first? [Thor touches the screens map to pick their destination]
QUILL: Hey, just so you know, this is my ship still. I'm in charge.
THOR: I know. I know. Of course, you are. Of course.
QUILL: See, you say of course, but then you touch the map. It makes you think that maybe you didn't realize I was in charge.
THOR: Quail you that that's your own
QUILL: Quail?
THOR: insecurities in there. Okay? I'm merely trying to be of service and assisting.
QUILL: It's Quill.
THOR: That's what I said.
DRAX: You should fight one another for the honor of leadership.
NEBULA: Sounds fair.
[Quill looks around]
QUILL: It's not necessary.
THOR: It's not.
QUILL: Okay?
ROCKET: I got some blasters, unless you guys wanna use knives.
MANTIS: [enthusiastically] Oooh, yes. Please, use knives.
DRAX: Yeah, knives.
GROOT: I am Groot.
[Both Thor and Quill laugh but Quill tries to laugh harder]
QUILL: Not necessary...
THOR: There shall be no knifing one another. Everybody knows who's in charge.
QUILL: [glances at Thor] Me, right?
THOR: Yes, you. Of course. Of course. Of course.
[Scene cuts to Bruce, Steve, Sam and Bucky at the funeral]
BRUCE BANNER: Now, remember You have to return the stones to the exact moment you got them. Or you're gonna open up a bunch of nasty alternative realities.
STEVE ROGERS: Don't worry, Bruce. Clip all the branches.
BRUCE BANNER: You know, I tried. When I had the gauntlet, the stones, I really tried to bring her back. [Looks at Steve] I miss her, man.
STEVE ROGERS: Me, too.
Sam Wilson: You know, if you want, I can come with you.
STEVE ROGERS: You're a good man, Sam. This one's on me, though.
[Steve goes over to Bucky]
STEVE ROGERS: Don't do anything stupid 'till I get back.
BUCKY BARNES: How can I? You're taking all the stupid with you.
[They both hug each other]
BUCKY BARNES: Gonna miss you, Buddy.
STEVE ROGERS: It's gonna be okay, Buck.
[Steve goes over to the Quantum portal and dons the Quantum suit]
Sam Wilson: How long is this gonna take?
BRUCE BANNER: For him? As long as he needs. For us? Five seconds.
[Steve picks up Mjolnir (2013)]
BRUCE BANNER: Ready, Cap? Alright. We'll meet you back here, okay?
STEVE ROGERS: You bet.
BRUCE BANNER: Going quantum. Three, two, one
[Steve disappears into the Quantum portal]
BRUCE BANNER: And returning in, five, four, three, two, one
[Steve doesn't appear on the pad. Bruce looks around the equipment]
Sam Wilson: Where is he?
BRUCE BANNER: I don't know. He blew right by his time stamp. He should be here.
[Bucky turns around from the pad]
Sam Wilson: Well, get him back.
BRUCE BANNER: I'm trying.
Sam Wilson: Get him the hell back!
BRUCE BANNER: Hey, I said, I'm trying!
BUCKY BARNES: Sam...
[Sam walks toward Bucky. Sam, Bucky, and Bruce see old looking Steve sitting on a log. Sam and Bucky go near him.]
BUCKY BARNES: Go ahead.
[Bucky has a smile forming and looks over to Sam. He walks towards the old man and instantly recognizes the now-elderly Steve Rogers]
Sam Wilson: Cap?
(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: Hi, Sam.
[Old Steve looks over to Sam]
Sam Wilson: So did something go wrong, or did something go right?
(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: Well, after I put the stones back, I thought, maybe I'll try some of that life Tony was telling me to get.
Sam Wilson: How'd that work out for you?
(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: It was beautiful.
Sam Wilson: I'm happy for you. Truly.
(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: Thank you.
Sam Wilson: Only thing bumming me out is the fact I have to live in a world without Captain America.
(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: Oh, That reminds me. [brings out his shield.] Try it on.
[Sam look over to Bucky, who nods, and Sam holds Steve's shield.]
(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: How does it feel?
Sam Wilson: Like it's someone else's.
(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: It isn't.
[Sam tries to hold back tears]
Sam Wilson: Thank you. I'll do my best.
(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: That's why it's yours. [shakes Sam's hand]
Sam Wilson: [seeing elderly Steve's wedding ring] You wanna tell me about her?
(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: [smiling] No. No, I don't think I will. [Last lines]
[In the final scenes, Steve has time traveled back to the 1940s to be with Peggy Carter. They are seen dancing to "It's Been a Long, Long Time" in their home, and they end with a kiss.]
[In the very end of the film, the sound of hammering metal is heard in the background. A dedication to Tony Stark and a callback to the first Iron Man]
[Closing Title: Marvel Studios]
[Screen Title: Distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures]
The End